I had a car, but on most days in that fall of 1973 I walked to Joyland from
Mrs. Shoplaw’s Beachside Accommodations in the town of Heaven’s Bay.
It seemed like the right thing to do. The only thing, actually. By early
September, Heaven Beach was almost completely deserted, which suited
my mood. That fall was the most beautiful of my life. Even forty years later
I can say that. And I was never so unhappy, I can say that, too. People think
first love is sweet, and never sweeter than when that first bond snaps.
You’ve heard a thousand pop and country songs that prove the point; some
fool got his heart broke. Yet that first broken heart is always the most
painful, the slowest to mend, and leaves the most visible scar. What’s so
sweet about that?
***
Through September and right into October, the North Carolina skies were
clear and the air was warm even at seven in the morning, when I left my
second-floor apartment by the outside stairs. If I started with a light jacket
on, I was wearing it tied around my waist before I’d finished half of the
three miles between the town and the amusement park.
I’d make Betty’s Bakery my first stop, grabbing a couple of still-warm
croissants. My shadow would walk with me on the sand, at least twenty feet
long. Hopeful gulls, smelling the croissants in their waxed paper, would
circle overhead. And when I walked back, usually around five (although
sometimes I stayed later—there was nothing waiting for me in Heaven’s
Bay, a town that mostly went sleepybye when summer was over), my
shadow walked with me on the water. If the tide was in, it would waver on
the surface, seeming to do a slow hula.
Although I can’t be completely sure, I think the boy and the woman and
their dog were there from the first time I took that walk. The shore between
the town and the cheerful, blinking gimcrackery of Joyland was lined with
summer homes, many of them expensive, most of them clapped shut after
Labor Day. But not the biggest of them, the one that looked like a green
wooden castle. A boardwalk led from its wide back patio down to where the

seagrass gave way to fine white sand. At the end of the boardwalk was a
picnic table shaded by a bright green beach umbrella. In its shade, the boy
sat in his wheelchair, wearing a baseball cap and covered from the waist
down by a blanket even in the late afternoons, when the temperature
lingered in the seventies. I thought he was five or so, surely no older than
seven. The dog, a Jack Russell terrier, either lay beside him or sat at his
feet. The woman sat on one of the picnic table benches, sometimes reading
a book, mostly just staring out at the water. She was very beautiful.
Going or coming, I always waved to them, and the boy waved back. She
didn’t, not at first. 1973 was the year of the OPEC oil embargo, the year
Richard Nixon announced he was not a crook, the year Edward G.
Robinson and Noel Coward died. It was Devin Jones’s lost year. I was a
twenty-one-year-old virgin with literary aspirations. I possessed three pairs
of bluejeans, four pairs of Jockey shorts, a clunker Ford (with a good radio),
occasional suicidal ideations, and a broken heart.
Sweet, huh?
***
The heartbreaker was Wendy Keegan, and she didn’t deserve me. It’s taken
me most of my life to come to that conclusion, but you know the old saw;
better late than never. She was from Portsmouth, New Hampshire; I was
from South Berwick, Maine. That made her practically the girl next door.
We had begun “going together” (as we used to say) during our freshman
year at UNH—we actually met at the Freshman Mixer, and how sweet is
that? Just like one of those pop songs.
We were inseparable for two years, went everywhere together and did
everything together. Everything, that is, but “it.” We were both work-study
kids with University jobs. Hers was in the library; mine was in the
Commons cafeteria. We were offered the chance to hold onto those jobs
during the summer of 1972, and of course we did. The money wasn’t great,
but the togetherness was priceless. I assumed that would also be the deal
during the summer of 1973, until Wendy announced that her friend Renee
had gotten them jobs working at Filene’s, in Boston.
“Where does that leave me?” I asked.

“You can always come down,” she said. “I’ll miss you like mad, but
really, Dev, we could probably use some time apart.”
A phrase that is very often a death-knell. She may have seen that idea on
my face, because she stood on tiptoe and kissed me. “Absence makes the
heart grow fonder,” she said. “Besides, with my own place, maybe you can
stay over.” But she didn’t quite look at me when she said that, and I never
did stay over. Too many roommates, she said. Too little time. Of course
such problems can be overcome, but somehow we never did, which should
have told me something; in retrospect, it tells me a lot. Several times we
had been very close to “it,” but “it” just never quite happened. She always
drew back, and I never pressed her. God help me, I was being gallant. I
have wondered often since what would have changed (for good or for ill)
had I not been. What I know now is that gallant young men rarely get pussy.
Put it on a sampler and hang it in your kitchen.
***
The prospect of another summer mopping cafeteria floors and loading
elderly Commons dishwashers with dirty plates didn’t hold much charm for
me, not with Wendy seventy miles south, enjoying the bright lights of
Boston, but it was steady work, which I needed, and I didn’t have any other
prospects. Then, in late February, one literally came down the dish-line to
me on the conveyor belt.
Someone had been reading Carolina Living while he or she snarfed up
that day’s blue plate luncheon special, which happened to be Mexicali
Burgers and Caramba Fries. He or she had left the magazine on the tray, and
I picked it up along with the dishes. I almost tossed it in the trash, then
didn’t. Free reading material was, after all, free reading material. (I was a
work-study kid, remember.) I stuck it in my back pocket and forgot about it
until I got back to my dorm room. There it flopped onto the floor, open to
the classified section at the back, while I was changing my pants.
Whoever had been reading the magazine had circled several job
possibilities…although in the end, he or she must have decided none of
them was quite right; otherwise Carolina Living wouldn’t have come riding
down the conveyor belt. Near the bottom of the page was an ad that caught
my eye even though it hadn’t been circled. In boldface type, the first line

read: WORK CLOSE TO HEAVEN! What English major could read that and not
hang in for the pitch? And what glum twenty-one-year-old, beset with the
growing fear that he might be losing his girlfriend, would not be attracted
by the idea of working in a place called Joyland?
There was a telephone number, and on a whim, I called it. A week later, a
job application landed in my dormitory mailbox. The attached letter stated
that if I wanted full-time summer employment (which I did), I’d be doing
many different jobs, most but not all custodial. I would have to possess a
valid driver’s license, and I would need to interview. I could do that on the
upcoming spring break instead of going home to Maine for the week. Only
I’d been planning to spend at least some of that week with Wendy. We
might even get around to “it.”
“Go for the interview,” Wendy said when I told her. She didn’t even
hesitate. “It’ll be an adventure.”
“Being with you would be an adventure,” I said.
“There’ll be plenty of time for that next year.” She stood on tiptoe and
kissed me (she always stood on tiptoe). Was she seeing the other guy, even
then? Probably not, but I’ll bet she’d noticed him, because he was in her
Advanced Sociology course. Renee St. Claire would have known, and
probably would have told me if I’d asked—telling stuff was Renee’s
specialty, I bet she wore the priest out when she did the old confession bit—
but some things you don’t want to know. Like why the girl you loved with
all your heart kept saying no to you, but tumbled into bed with the new guy
at almost the first opportunity. I’m not sure anybody ever gets completely
over their first love, and that still rankles. Part of me still wants to know
what was wrong with me. What I was lacking. I’m in my sixties now, my
hair is gray and I’m a prostate cancer survivor, but I still want to know why
I wasn’t good enough for Wendy Keegan.
***
I took a train called the Southerner from Boston to North Carolina (not
much of an adventure, but cheap), and a bus from Wilmington to Heaven’s
Bay. My interview was with Fred Dean, who was—among many other
functions—Joyland’s employment officer. After fifteen minutes of Q-andA, plus a look at my driver’s license and my Red Cross life-saving

certificate, he handed me a plastic badge on a lanyard. It bore the word
VISITOR, that day’s date, and a cartoon picture of a grinning, blue-eyed
German Shepherd who bore a passing resemblance to the famous cartoon
sleuth, Scooby-Doo.
“Take a walk around,” Dean said. “Ride the Carolina Spin, if you like.
Most of the rides aren’t up and running yet, but that one is. Tell Lane I said
okay. What I gave you is a day pass, but I want you back here by…” He
looked at his watch. “Let’s say one o’clock. Tell me then if you want the
job. I’ve got five spots left, but they’re all basically the same—as Happy
Helpers.”
“Thank you, sir.”
He nodded, smiling. “Don’t know how you’ll feel about this place, but it
suits me fine. It’s a little old and a little rickety, but I find that charming. I
tried Disney for a while; didn’t like it. It’s too…I don’t know…”
“Too corporate?” I ventured.
“Exactly. Too corporate. Too buffed and shiny. So I came back to Joyland
a few years ago. Haven’t regretted it. We fly a bit more by the seat of our
pants here—the place has a little of the old-time carny flavor. Go on, look
around. See what you think. More important, see how you feel.”
“Can I ask one question first?”
“Of course.”
I fingered my day pass. “Who’s the dog?”
His smile became a grin. “That’s Howie the Happy Hound, Joyland’s
mascot. Bradley Easterbrook built Joyland, and the original Howie was his
dog. Long dead now, but you’ll still see a lot of him, if you work here this
summer.”
I did…and I didn’t. An easy riddle, but the explanation will have to wait
awhile.
***
Joyland was an indie, not as big as a Six Flags park, and nowhere near as
big as Disney World, but it was large enough to be impressive, especially
with Joyland Avenue, the main drag, and Hound Dog Way, the secondary
drag, almost empty and looking eight lanes wide. I heard the whine of
power-saws and saw plenty of workmen—the largest crew swarming over

the Thunderball, one of Joyland’s two coasters—but there were no
customers, because the park didn’t open until June fifteenth. A few of the
food concessions were doing business to take care of the workers’ lunch
needs, though, and an old lady in front of a star-studded tell-your-fortune
kiosk was staring at me suspiciously. With one exception, everything else
was shut up tight.
The exception of the Carolina Spin. It was a hundred and seventy feet tall
(this I found out later), and turning very slowly. Out in front stood a tightly
muscled guy in faded jeans, balding suede boots splotched with grease, and
a strap-style tee-shirt. He wore a derby hat tilted on his coal-black hair. A
filterless cigarette was parked behind one ear. He looked like a cartoon
carnival barker from an old-time newspaper strip. There was an open
toolbox and a big portable radio on an orange crate beside him. The Faces
were singing “Stay with Me.” The guy was bopping to the beat, hands in his
back pockets, hips moving side to side. I had a thought, absurd but perfectly
clear: When I grow up, I want to look just like this guy.
He pointed to the pass. “Freddy Dean sent you, right? Told you
everything else was closed, but you could take a ride on the big wheel.”
“Yes, sir.”
“A ride on the Spin means you’re in. He likes the chosen few to get the
aerial view. You gonna take the job?”
“I think so.”
He stuck out his hand. “I’m Lane Hardy. Welcome aboard, kid.”
I shook with him. “Devin Jones.”
“Pleased to meet you.”
He started up the inclined walk leading to the gently turning ride,
grabbed a long lever that looked like a stick shift, and edged it back. The
wheel came to a slow stop with one of the gaily painted cabins (the image
of Howie the Happy Hound on each) swaying at the passenger loading
dock.
“Climb aboard, Jonesy. I’m going to send you up where the air is rare
and the view is much more than fair.”
I climbed into the cabin and closed the door. Lane gave it a shake to
make sure it was latched, dropped the safety bar, then returned to his
rudimentary controls. “Ready for takeoff, cap’n?”
“I guess so.”

“Amazement awaits.” He gave me a wink and advanced the control stick.
The wheel began to turn again and all at once he was looking up at me. So
was the old lady by the fortune-telling booth. Her neck was craned and she
was shading her eyes. I waved to her. She didn’t wave back.
Then I was above everything but the convoluted dips and twists of the
Thunderball, rising into the chilly early spring air, and feeling—stupid but
true—that I was leaving all my cares and worries down below.
Joyland wasn’t a theme park, which allowed it to have a little bit of
everything. There was a secondary roller coaster called the Delirium Shaker
and a water slide (Captain Nemo’s Splash & Crash). On the far western side
of the park was a special annex for the little ones called the Wiggle-Waggle
Village. There was also a concert hall where most of the acts—this I also
learned later—were either B-list C&W or the kind of rockers who peaked in
the fifties or sixties. I remember that Johnny Otis and Big Joe Turner did a
show there together. I had to ask Brenda Rafferty, the head accountant who
was also a kind of den mother to the Hollywood Girls, who they were. Bren
thought I was dense; I thought she was old; we were both probably right.
Lane Hardy took me all the way to the top and then stopped the wheel. I
sat in the swaying car, gripping the safety bar, and looking out at a brandnew world. To the west was the North Carolina flatland, looking incredibly
green to a New England kid who was used to thinking of March as nothing
but true spring’s cold and muddy precursor. To the east was the ocean, a
deep metallic blue until it broke in creamy-white pulses on the beach where
I would tote my abused heart up and down a few months hence. Directly
below me was the good-natured jumble of Joyland—the big rides and small
ones, the concert hall and concessions, the souvenir shops and the Happy
Hound Shuttle, which took customers to the adjacent motels and, of course,
the beach. To the north was Heaven’s Bay. From high above the park
(upstairs, where the air is rare), the town looked like a nestle of children’s
blocks from which four church steeples rose at the major points of the
compass.
The wheel began to move again. I came down feeling like a kid in a
Rudyard Kipling story, riding on the nose of an elephant. Lane Hardy
brought me to a stop, but didn’t bother to unlatch the car’s door for me; I
was, after all, almost an employee.
“How’d you like it?”

“Great,” I said.
“Yeah, it ain’t bad for a grandma ride.” He reset his derby so it slanted
the other way and cast an appraising eye over me. “How tall are you? Sixthree?”
“Six-four.”
“Uh-huh. Let’s see how you like ridin all six-four of you on the Spin in
the middle of July, wearin the fur and singin ‘Happy Birthday’ to some
spoiled-rotten little snot-hole with cotton candy in one hand and a meltin
Kollie Kone in the other.”
“Wearing what fur?”
But he was headed back to his machinery and didn’t answer. Maybe he
couldn’t hear me over his radio, which was now blasting “Crocodile Rock.”
Or maybe he just wanted my future occupation as one of Joyland’s cadre of
Happy Hounds to come as a surprise.
***
I had over an hour to kill before meeting with Fred Dean again, so I strolled
up Hound Dog Way toward a lunch-wagon that looked like it was doing a
pretty good business. Not everything at Joyland was canine-themed, but
plenty of stuff was, including this particular eatery, which was called PupA-Licious. I was on a ridiculously tight budget for this little job-hunting
expedition, but I thought I could afford a couple of bucks for a chili-dog
and a paper cup of French fries.
When I reached the palm-reading concession, Madame Fortuna planted
herself in my path. Except that’s not quite right, because she was only
Fortuna between June fifteenth and Labor Day. During those twelve weeks,
she dressed in long skirts, gauzy, layered blouses, and shawls decorated
with various cabalistic symbols. Gold hoops hung from her ears, so heavy
they dragged the lobes down, and she talked in a thick Romany accent that
made her sound like a character from a 1930s fright-flick, the kind featuring
mist-shrouded castles and howling wolves.
During the rest of the year she was a widow from Brooklyn who
collected Hummel figures and liked movies (especially the weepy-ass kind
where some chick gets cancer and dies beautifully). Today she was smartly
put together in a black pantsuit and low heels. A rose-pink scarf around her

throat added a touch of color. As Fortuna, she sported masses of wild gray
locks, but that was a wig, and still stored under its own glass dome in her
little Heaven’s Bay house. Her actual hair was a cropped cap of dyed black.
The Love Story fan from Brooklyn and Fortuna the Seer only came together
in one respect: both fancied themselves psychic.
“There is a shadow over you, young man,” she announced.
I looked down and saw she was absolutely right. I was standing in the
shadow of the Carolina Spin. We both were.
“Not that, stupidnik. Over your future. You will have a hunger.”
I had a bad one already, but a Pup-A-Licious footlong would soon take
care of it. “That’s very interesting, Mrs… um…”
“Rosalind Gold,” she said, holding out her hand. “But you can call me
Rozzie. Everyone does. But during the season…” She fell into character,
which meant she sounded like Bela Lugosi with breasts. “Doorink the
season, I am… Fortuna!”
I shook with her. If she’d been in costume as well as in character, half a
dozen gold bangles would have clattered on her wrist. “Very nice to meet
you.” And, trying on the same accent: “I am…Devin!”
She wasn’t amused. “An Irish name?”
“Right.”
“The Irish are full of sorrow, and many have the sight. I don’t know if
you do, but you will meet someone who does.”
Actually, I was full of happiness…along with that surpassing desire to
put a Pup-A-Licious pup, preferably loaded with chili, down my throat.
This was feeling like an adventure. I told myself I’d probably feel less that
way when I was swabbing out toilets at the end of a busy day, or cleaning
puke from the seats of the Whirly Cups, but just then everything seemed
perfect.
“Are you practicing your act?”
She drew herself up to her full height, which might have been five-two.
“Is no act, my lad.” She said ect for act. “Jews are the most psychically
sensitive race on earth. This is a thing everyone knows.” She dropped the
accent. “Also, Joyland beats hanging out a palmistry shingle on Second
Avenue. Sorrowful or not, I like you. You give off good vibrations.”
“One of my very favorite Beach Boys songs.”

“But you are on the edge of great sorrow.” She paused, doing the old
emphasis thing. “And, perhaps, danger.”
“Do you see a beautiful woman with dark hair in my future?” Wendy was
a beautiful woman with dark hair.
“No,” Rozzie said, and what came next stopped me dead. “She is in your
past.”
Ohh-kay.
I walked around her in the direction of Pup-A-Licious, being careful not
to touch her. She was a charlatan, I didn’t have a single doubt about that,
but touching her just then still seemed like a lousy idea.
No good. She walked with me. “In your future is a little girl and a little
boy. The boy has a dog.”
“A Happy Hound, I bet. Probably named Howie.”
She ignored this latest attempt at levity. “The girl wears a red hat and
carries a doll. One of these children has the sight. I don’t know which. It is
hidden from me.”
I hardly heard that part of her spiel. I was thinking of the previous
pronouncement, made in a flat Brooklyn accent: She is in your past.
Madame Fortuna got a lot of stuff wrong, I found out, but she did seem to
have a genuine psychic touch, and on the day I interviewed for a summer at
Joyland, she was hitting on all cylinders.
***
I got the job. Mr. Dean was especially pleased by my Red Cross life-saving
certificate, obtained at the YMCA the summer I turned sixteen. That was
what I called my Boredom Summer. In the years since, I’ve discovered
there’s a lot to be said for boredom.
I told Mr. Dean when my finals ended, and promised him that I’d be at
Joyland two days later, ready for team assignment and training. We shook
hands and he welcomed me aboard. I had a moment when I wondered if he
was going to encourage me to do the Happy Hound Bark with him, or
something equivalent, but he just wished me a good day and walked out of
the office with me, a little man with sharp eyes and a lithe stride. Standing
on the little cement-block porch of the employment office, listening to the

pound of the surf and smelling the damp salt air, I felt excited all over
again, and hungry for summer to begin.
“You’re in the amusement business now, young Mr. Jones,” my new boss
said. “Not the carny business—not exactly, not the way we run things today
—but not so far removed from it, either. Do you know what that means, to
be in the amusement business?”
“No, sir, not exactly.”
His eyes were solemn, but there was a ghost of a grin on his mouth. “It
means the rubes have to leave with smiles on their faces—and by the way,
if I ever hear you call the customers rubes, you’re going to be out the door
so fast you won’t know what hit you. I can say it, because I’ve been in the
amusement business since I was old enough to shave. They’re rubes—no
different from the redneck Okies and Arkies that rubbernecked their way
through every carny I worked for after World War II. The people who come
to Joyland may wear better clothes and drive Fords and Volkswagen
microbuses instead of Farmall pickups, but the place turns em into rubes
with their mouths hung open. If it doesn’t, it’s not doing its job. But to you,
they’re the conies. When they hear it, they think Coney Island. We know
better. They’re rabbits, Mr. Jones, nice plump fun-loving rabbits, hopping
from ride to ride and shy to shy instead of from hole to hole.”
He dropped me a wink and gave my shoulder a squeeze.
“The conies have to leave happy, or this place dries up and blows away.
I’ve seen it happen, and when it does, it happens fast. It’s an amusement
park, young Mr. Jones, so pet the conies and give their ears only the gentlest
of tugs. In a word, amuse them.”
“Okay,” I said…although I didn’t know how much customer amusement
I’d be providing by polishing the Devil Wagons (Joyland’s version of
Dodgem cars) or running a street-sweeper down Hound Dog Way after the
gates closed.
“And don’t you dare leave me in the lurch. Be here on the agreed-upon
date, and five minutes before the agreed-upon time.”
“Okay.”
“There are two important showbiz rules, kiddo: always know where your
wallet is…and show up.”
***

When I walked out beneath the big arch with WELCOME TO JOYLAND written
on it in neon letters (now off) and into the mostly empty parking lot, Lane
Hardy was leaning against one of the shuttered ticket booths, smoking the
cigarette previously parked behind his ear.
“Can’t smoke on the grounds anymore,” he said. “New rule. Mr.
Easterbrook says we’re the first park in America to have it, but we won’t be
the last. Get the job?”
“I did.”
“Congratulations. Did Freddy give you the carny spiel?”
“Sort of, yeah.”
“Tell you about petting the conies?”
“Yeah.”
“He can be a pain in the banana, but he’s old-time showbiz, seen it all,
most of it twice, and he’s not wrong. I think you’ll do okay. You’ve got a
carny look about you, kid.” He waved a hand at the park with its landmarks
rising against the blameless blue sky: the Thunderball, the Delirium Shaker,
the convoluted twists and turns of Captain Nemo’s water slide, and—of
course—the Carolina Spin. “Who knows, this place might be your future.”
“Maybe,” I said, although I already knew what my future was going to
be: writing novels and the kind of short stories they publish in The New
Yorker. I had it all planned out. Of course, I also had marriage to Wendy
Keegan all planned out, and how we’d wait until we were in our thirties to
have a couple of kids. When you’re twenty-one, life is a roadmap. It’s only
when you get to be twenty-five or so that you begin to suspect you’ve been
looking at the map upside down, and not until you’re forty are you entirely
sure. By the time you’re sixty, take it from me, you’re fucking lost.
“Did Rozzie Gold give you her usual bundle of Fortuna horseshit?”
“Um…”
Lane chuckled. “Why do I even ask? Just remember, kid, that ninety
percent of everything she says really is horseshit. The other ten…let’s just
say she’s told folks some stuff that rocked them back on their heels.”
“What about you?” I asked. “Any revelations that rocked you back on
your heels?”
He grinned. “The day I let Rozzie read my palm is the day I go back on
the road, ride-jocking the tornado-and-chittlins circuit. Mrs. Hardy’s boy

doesn’t mess with Ouija boards and crystal balls.”
Do you see a beautiful woman with dark hair in my future? I’d asked.
No. She is in your past.
He was looking at me closely. “What’s up? You swallow a fly?”
“It’s nothing,” I said.
“Come on, son. Did she feed you truth or horseshit? Live or Memorex?
Tell your daddy.”
“Definitely horseshit.” I looked at my watch. “I’ve got a bus to catch at
five, if I’m going to make the train to Boston at seven. I better get moving.”
“Ah, you got plenty of time. Where you staying this summer?”
“I hadn’t even thought about it.”
“You might want to stop at Mrs. Shoplaw’s on your way to the bus
station. Plenty of people in Heaven’s Bay rent to summer help, but she’s the
best. She’s housed a lot of Happy Helpers over the years. Her place is easy
to find; it’s where Main Street ends at the beach. Great big rambler painted
gray. You’ll see the sign hanging from the porch. Can’t miss it, because it’s
made out of shells and some’re always falling off. MRS. SHOPLAW’S
BEACHSIDE ACCOMMODATIONS. Tell her I sent you.”
“Okay, I will. Thanks.”
“If you rent there, you can walk down here on the beach if you want to
save your gas money for something more important, like stepping out on
your day off. That beach walk makes a pretty way to start the morning.
Good luck, kid. Look forward to working with you.” He held out his hand. I
shook it and thanked him again.
Since he’d put the idea in my head, I decided to take the beach walk back
to town. It would save me twenty minutes waiting for a taxi I couldn’t
really afford. I had almost reached the wooden stairs going down to the
sand when he called after me.
“Hey, Jonesy! Want to know something Rozzie won’t tell you?”
“Sure,” I said.
“We’ve got a spook palace called Horror House. The old Rozola won’t
go within fifty yards of it. She hates the pop-ups and the torture chamber
and the recorded voices, but the real reason is that she’s afraid it really
might be haunted.”
“Yeah?”

“Yeah. And she ain’t the only one. Half a dozen folks who work here
claim to have seen her.”
“Are you serious?” But this was just one of the questions you ask when
you’re flabbergasted. I could see he was.
“I’d tell you the story, but break-time’s over for me. I’ve got some
power-poles to replace on the Devil Wagons, and the safety inspection guys
are coming to look at the Thunderball around three. What a pain in the ass
those guys are. Ask Shoplaw. When it comes to Joyland, Emmalina
Shoplaw knows more than I do. You could say she’s a student of the place.
Compared to her, I’m a newbie.”
“This isn’t a joke? A little rubber chicken you toss at all the new hires?”
“Do I look like I’m joking?”
He didn’t, but he did look like he was having a good time. He even
dropped me a wink. “What’s a self-respecting amusement park without a
ghost? Maybe you’ll see her yourself. The rubes never do, that’s for sure.
Now hurry along, kiddo. Nail down a room before you catch the bus back
to Wilmington. You’ll thank me later.”
***
With a name like Emmalina Shoplaw, it was hard not to picture a rosycheeked landlady out of a Charles Dickens novel, one who went
everywhere at a bosomy bustle and said things like Lor’ save us. She’d
serve tea and scones while a supporting cast of kind-hearted eccentrics
looked on approvingly; she might even pinch my cheek as we sat roasting
chestnuts over a crackling fire.
But we rarely get what we imagine in this world, and the gal who
answered my ring was tall, fiftyish, flat-chested, and as pale as a frosted
windowpane. She carried an old-fashioned beanbag ashtray in one hand and
a smoldering cigarette in the other. Her mousy brown hair had been done up
in fat coils that covered her ears. They made her look like an aging version
of a princess in a Grimm’s fairy tale. I explained why I was there.
“Going to work at Joyland, huh? Well, I guess you better come in. Do
you have references?”
“Not apartment references, no—I live in a dorm. But I’ve got a work
reference from my boss at the Commons. The Commons is the food-service

cafeteria at UNH where I—”
“I know what a Commons is. I was born at night, but it wasn’t last night.”
She showed me into the front parlor, a house-long room stuffed with
mismatched furniture and dominated by a big table-model TV. She pointed
at it. “Color. My renters are welcome to use it—and the parlor—until ten on
weeknights and midnight on the weekends. Sometimes I join the kids for a
movie or the Saturday afternoon baseball. We have pizza or I make
popcorn. It’s jolly.”
Jolly, I thought. As in jolly good. And it sounded jolly good.
“Tell me, Mr. Jones, do you drink and get noisy? I consider that sort of
behavior antisocial, although many don’t.”
“No, ma’am.” I drank a little, but rarely got noisy. Usually after a beer or
two, I just got sleepy.
“Asking if you use drugs would be pointless, you’d say no whether you
do or not, wouldn’t you? But of course that sort of thing always reveals
itself in time, and when it does, I invite my renters to find fresh accommos.
Not even pot, are we clear on that?”
“Yes.”
She peered at me. “You don’t look like a pothead.”
“I’m not.”
“I have space for four boarders, and only one of those places is currently
taken. Miss Ackerley. She’s a librarian. All my rents are single rooms, but
they’re far nicer than what you’d find at a motel. The one I’m thinking of
for you is on the second floor. It has its own bathroom and shower, which
those on the third floor do not. There’s an outside staircase, too, which is
convenient if you have a lady-friend. I have nothing against lady-friends,
being both a lady and quite friendly myself. Do you have a lady-friend, Mr.
Jones?”
“Yes, but she’s working in Boston this summer.”
“Well, perhaps you’ll meet someone. You know what the song says—
love is all around.”
I only smiled at that. In the spring of ’73, the concept of loving anyone
other than Wendy Keegan seemed utterly foreign to me.
“You’ll have a car, I imagine. There are just two parking spaces out back
for four tenants, so every summer it’s first come, first served. You’re first

come, and I think you’ll do. If I find you don’t, it’s down the road you’ll go.
Does that strike you as fair?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“Good, because that’s the way it is. I’ll need the usual: first month, last
month, damage deposit.” She named a figure that also seemed fair.
Nevertheless, it was going to make a shambles of my First New Hampshire
Trust account.
“Will you take a check?”
“Will it bounce?”
“No, ma’am, not quite.”
She threw back her head and laughed. “Then I’ll take it, assuming you
still want the room once you’ve seen it.” She stubbed out her cigarette and
rose. “By the way, no smoking upstairs—it’s a matter of insurance. And no
smoking in here, once there are tenants in residence. That’s a matter of
common politeness. Do you know that old man Easterbrook is instituting a
no-smoking policy at the park?”
“I heard that. He’ll probably lose business.”
“He might at first. Then he might gain some. I’d put my money on Brad.
He’s a shrewd guy, carny-from-carny.” I thought to ask her what that meant,
exactly, but she had already moved on. “Shall we have a peek at the room?”
A peek at the second-floor room was enough to convince me it would be
fine. The bed was big, which was good, and the window looked out on the
ocean, which was even better. The bathroom was something of a joke, so
tiny that when I sat on the commode my feet would be in the shower, but
college students with only crumbs in their financial cupboards can’t be too
picky. And the view was the clincher. I doubted if the rich folks had a better
one from their summer places along Beach Row. I pictured bringing Wendy
here, the two of us admiring the view, and then…in that big bed with the
steady, sleepy beat of the surf outside…
“It.” Finally, “it.”
“I want it,” I said, and felt my cheeks heat up. It wasn’t just the room I
was talking about.
“I know you do. It’s all over your darn face.” As if she knew what I was
thinking, and maybe she did. She grinned—a big wide one that made her
almost Dickensian in spite of her flat bosom and pale skin. “Your own little

nest. Not the Palace of Versailles, but your own. Not like having a dorm
room, is it? Even a single?”
“No,” I admitted. I was thinking I’d have to talk my dad into putting
another five hundred bucks into my bank account, to keep me covered until
I started getting paychecks. He’d grouse but come through. I just hoped I
wouldn’t have to play the Dead Mom card. She had been gone almost four
years, but Dad carried half a dozen pictures of her in his wallet, and still
wore his wedding ring.
“Your own job and your own place,” she said, sounding a bit dreamy.
“That’s good stuff, Devin. Do you mind me calling you Devin?”
“Make it Dev.”
“All right, I will.” She looked around the little room with its sharply
sloping roof—it was under an eave—and sighed. “The thrill doesn’t last
long, but while it does, it’s a fine thing. That sense of independence. I think
you’ll fit in here. You’ve got a carny look about you.”
“You’re the second person to tell me that.” Then I thought of my
conversation with Lane Hardy in the parking lot. “Third, actually.”
“And I bet I know who the other two were. Anything else I can show
you? The bathroom’s not much, I know, but it beats having to take a dump
in a dormitory bathroom while a couple of guys at the sinks fart and tell lies
about the girls they made out with last night.”
I burst into roars of laughter, and Mrs. Emmalina Shoplaw joined me.
***
We descended by way of the outside stairs. “How’s Lane Hardy?” she asked
when we got to the bottom. “Still wearing that stupid beanie of his?”
“It looked like a derby to me.”
She shrugged. “Beanie, derby, what’s the diff?”
“He’s fine, but he told me something…”
She was giving me a head-cocked look. Almost smiling, but not quite.
“He told me the Joyland funhouse—Horror House, he called it—is
haunted. I asked him if he was pulling my leg, and he said he wasn’t. He
said you knew about it.”
“Did he, now.”

“Yes. He says that when it comes to Joyland, you know more than he
does.”
“Well,” she said, reaching into the pocket of her slacks and bringing out a
pack of Winstons, “I know a fair amount. My husband was chief of
engineering down there until he took a heart attack and died. When it turned
out his life insurance was lousy—and borrowed against to the hilt in the
bargain—I started renting out the top two stories of this place. What else
was I going to do? We just had the one kid, and now she’s up in New York,
working for an ad agency.” She lit her cigarette, inhaled, and chuffed it back
out as laughter. “Working on losing her southern accent, too, but that’s
another story. This overgrown monstrosity of a house was Howie’s playtoy,
and I never begrudged him. At least it’s paid off. And I like staying
connected to the park, because it makes me feel like I’m still connected to
him. Can you understand that?”
“Sure.”
She considered me through a rising raft of cigarette smoke, smiled, and
shook her head. “Nah—you’re being kind, but you’re a little too young.”
“I lost my Mom four years ago. My dad’s still grieving. He says there’s a
reason wife and life sound almost the same. I’ve got school, at least, and my
girlfriend. Dad’s knocking around a house just north of Kittery that’s way
too big for him. He knows he should sell it and get a smaller one closer to
where he works—we both know—but he stays. So yeah, I know what you
mean.”
“I’m sorry for your loss,” Mrs. Shoplaw said. “Some day I’ll open my
mouth too wide and fall right in. That bus of yours, is it the five-ten?”
“Yes.”
“Well, come on in the kitchen. I’ll make you a toasted cheese and
microwave you a bowl of tomato soup. You’ve got time. And I’ll tell you
the sad story of the Joyland ghost while you eat, if you want to hear it.”
“Is it really a ghost story?”
“I’ve never been in that damn funhouse, so I don’t know for sure. But it’s
a murder story. That much I am sure of.”
***

The soup was just Campbell’s out of the can, but the toasted cheese was
Muenster—my favorite—and tasted heavenly. She poured me a glass of
milk and insisted I drink it. I was, Mrs. Shoplaw said, a growing boy. She
sat down opposite me with her own bowl of soup but no sandwich (“I have
to watch my girlish figure”) and told me the tale. Some of it she’d gotten
from the newspapers and TV reports. The juicier bits came from her
Joyland contacts, of whom she had many.
“It was four years ago, which I guess would make it around the same
time your mother died. Do you know what always comes first to my mind
when I think about it? The guy’s shirt. And the gloves. Thinking about
those things gives me the creeps. Because it means he planned it.”
“You might be kind of starting in the middle,” I said.
Mrs. Shoplaw laughed. “Yeah, I suppose I am. The name of your
supposed ghost is Linda Gray, and she was from Florence. That’s over
South Carolina way. She and her boyfriend—if that’s what he was; the cops
checked her background pretty closely and found no trace of him—spent
her last night on earth at the Luna Inn, half a mile south of here along the
beach. They entered Joyland around eleven o’clock the next day. He bought
them day passes, using cash. They rode some rides and then had a late
lunch at Rock Lobster, the seafood place down by the concert hall. That was
just past one o’clock. As for the time of death, you probably know how they
establish it… contents of the stomach and so on…”
“Yeah.” My sandwich was gone, and I turned my attention to the soup.
The story wasn’t hurting my appetite any. I was twenty-one, remember, and
although I would have told you different, down deep I was convinced I was
never going to die. Not even my mother’s death had been able to shake that
core belief.
“He fed her, then he took her on the Carolina Spin—a slow ride, you
know, easy on the digestion—and then he took her into Horror House. They
went in together, but only he came out. About halfway along the course of
the ride, which takes about nine minutes, he cut her throat and threw her out
beside the monorail track the cars run on. Threw her out like a piece of
trash. He must have known there’d be a mess, because he was wearing two
shirts, and he’d put on a pair of yellow work-gloves. They found the top
shirt—the one that would have caught most of the blood—about a hundred
yards farther along from the body. The gloves a little farther along still.”

I could see it: first the body, still warm and pulsing, then the shirt, then
the gloves. The killer, meanwhile, sits tight and finishes the ride. Mrs.
Shoplaw was right, it was creepy.
“When the ride ended, the son of a bee just got out and walked away. He
mopped up the car—that shirt they found was soaking—but he didn’t get
quite all of the blood. One of the Helpers spotted some on the seat before
the next ride started and cleaned it up. Didn’t think twice about it, either.
Blood on amusement park rides isn’t unusual; mostly it’s some kid who gets
overexcited and has a nose-gusher. You’ll find out for yourself. Just make
sure you wear your own gloves when you do the cleanup, in case of
diseases. They have em at all the first-aid stations, and there are first-aid
stations all over the park.”
“Nobody noticed that he got off the ride without his date?”
“Nope. This was mid-July, the very height of the season, and the place
was a swarming madhouse. They didn’t find the body until one o’clock the
next morning, long after the park was closed and the Horror House worklights were turned on. For the graveyard shift, you know. You’ll get your
chance to experience that; all the Happy Helper crews get cleanup duty one
week a month, and you want to catch up on your sleep ahead of time,
because that swing-shift’s a booger.”
“People rode past her until the park closed and didn’t see her?”
“If they did, they thought it was just part of the show. But probably the
body went unnoticed. Remember, Horror House is a dark ride. The only one
in Joyland, as it happens. Other parks have more.”
A dark ride. That struck a shivery chord, but it wasn’t strong enough to
keep me from finishing my soup. “What about a description of him? Maybe
from whoever served them at the restaurant?”
“They had better than that. They had pictures. You want to believe the
police made sure they got on TV and printed in the newspapers.”
“How did that happen?”
“The Hollywood Girls,” Mrs. Shoplaw said. “There are always half a
dozen working the park when it’s going full-blast. There’s never been
anything close to a cooch joint at Joyland, but old man Easterbrook didn’t
spend all those years in rolling carnies for nothing. He knows people like a
little dash of sex appeal to go with the rides and the corndogs. There’s one
Hollywood Girl on each Helper team. You’ll get yours, and you and the rest

of the guys on your team will be expected to keep a big-brotherly eye out in
case anyone bothers her. They run around in these short green dresses and
green high heels and cutie-pie green hats that always make me think of
Robin Hood and his Merry Men. Only they’re the Merry Chicks. They tote
Speed Graphic cameras, like the kind you see in old movies, and they take
pictures of the rubes.” She paused. “Although I’d advise you against calling
the customers that yourself.”
“Already been warned by Mr. Dean,” I said.
“Figures. Anyhow, the Hollywood Girls are told to concentrate on family
groups and dating couples who look over twenty-one. Kids younger than
that usually aren’t interested in souvenir photos; they’d rather spend their
money on food and arcade games. So the deal is, the girls snap first, then
approach.” She did a breathy little Marilyn Monroe voice. “ ‘Hello,
welcome to Joyland, I’m Karen! If you’d like a copy of the picture I just
took, give me your name and check at the Hollywood Photo Booth on
Hound Dog Way as you exit the park.’ Like that.
“One of them took a picture of Linda Gray and her boyfriend at the
Annie Oakley Shootin’ Gallery, but when she approached, the guy gave her
the brushoff. A hard brushoff. She told the cops later that he looked like he
would’ve taken her camera and broken it, if he thought he could get away
with it. Said his eyes gave her chills. Hard and gray, she said.” Mrs.
Shoplaw smiled and shrugged. “Only it turned out he was wearing
sunglasses. You know how some girls like to dramatize.”
As a matter of fact, I did. Wendy’s friend Renee could turn a routine trip
to the dentist into a horror-movie scenario.
“That was the best picture, but not the only one. The cops went through
all the Hollywood Girl snaps from that day and found the Gray girl and her
friend in the background of at least four others. In the best of those, they’re
standing in line for the Whirly Cups, and he’s got his hand on her keister.
Pretty chummy for someone none of her family or friends had ever seen
before.”
“Too bad there aren’t closed-circuit TV cameras,” I said. “My lady-friend
got a job at Filene’s in Boston this summer, and she says they’ve got a few
of those cameras, and are putting in more. To foil shoplifters.”
“A day will come when they have em everywhere,” she said. “Just like in
that science fiction book about the Thought Police. I don’t look forward to

it, either. But they’ll never have them in rides like Horror House. Not even
infrared ones that see in the dark.”
“No?”
“Nope. There’s no Tunnel of Love at Joyland, but Horror House is most
definitely the Tunnel of Grope. My husband told me once that a day when
the graveyard shift cleanup crew didn’t find at least three pairs of panties
beside the track was a slow day, indeed.
“But they did have that one great photo of the guy at the shooting gallery.
A portrait, almost. It ran in the papers and on TV for a week. Him snuggled
up to her hip to hip, showing her how to hold the rifle, the way the guys
always do. Everyone in both Carolinas must have seen it. She’s smiling, but
he looks dead serious.”
“With his gloves and knife in his pockets the whole time,” I said.
Marveling at the idea.
“Razor.”
“Huh?”
“He used a straight razor or something like it, that’s what the medical
examiner figured. Anyway, they had those photos, including the one great
one, and you know what? You can’t make his face out in any of them.”
“Because of the sunglasses.”
“For starters. Also a goatee that covered his chin, and a baseball cap, the
kind with a long bill, that shaded what little of his face the sunglasses and
goatee didn’t cover. Could have been anyone. Could have been you, except
you’re dark-haired instead of blond and don’t have a bird’s head tattooed on
one of your hands. This guy did. An eagle or maybe a hawk. It showed up
very clearly in the Shootin’ Gallery pic. They ran a blowup of the tat in the
paper for five days running, hoping someone would recognize it. Nobody
did.”
“No leads at the inn where they stayed the night before?”
“Uh-uh. He showed a South Carolina driver’s license when he checked
in, but it was stolen a year before. No one even saw her. She must have
waited in the car. She was a Jane Doe for almost a week, but the police
released a full-face sketch. Made her look like she was just sleeping, not
dead with her throat cut. Someone—a friend she went to nursing school
with, I think it was—saw it and recognized it. She told the girl’s parents. I
can’t imagine how they must have felt, coming up here in their car and

hoping against hope that when they got to the morgue, it would turn out to
be someone else’s well-loved child.” She shook her head slowly. “Kids are
such a risk, Dev. Did that ever cross your mind?”
“I guess so.”
“Which means it hasn’t. Me…I think if they turned back that sheet and it
was my daughter lying there, I’d lose my mind.”
“You don’t think Linda Gray really haunts the funhouse, do you?”
“I can’t answer that, because I hold no opinion on the afterlife, pro or
con. My feeling is I’ll find that stuff out when I get there, and that’s good
enough for me. All I know is that lots of people who work at Joyland claim
to have seen her standing beside the track, wearing what she had on when
they found her: blue skirt and blue sleeveless blouse. None of them would
have seen those colors in the photos they released to the public, because the
Speed Graphics the Hollywood Girls use only shoot black-and-white.
Easier and cheaper to develop, I guess.”
“Maybe the color of her clothes was mentioned in the articles.”
She shrugged. “Might have been; I don’t remember. But several people
have also mentioned that the girl they saw standing by the track was
wearing a blue Alice band, and that wasn’t in the news stories. They held it
back for almost a year, hoping to use it on a likely suspect if they came up
with one.”
“Lane said the rubes never see her.”
“No, she only shows up after hours. It’s mostly Happy Helpers on the
graveyard shift who see her, but I know at least one safety inspector from
Raleigh who claims he did, because I had a drink with him at the Sand
Dollar. Guy said she was just standing there on his ride-through. He thought
it was a new pop-up until she raised her hands to him, like this.”
Mrs. Shoplaw held her hands out with the palms upturned, a supplicatory
gesture.
“He said it felt like the temperature dropped twenty degrees. A cold
pocket, he called it. When he turned and looked back, she was gone.”
I thought of Lane, in his tight jeans, scuffed boots, and tilted tuff-boy
derby. Truth or horseshit? he’d asked. Live or Memorex? I thought the
ghost of Linda Gray was almost certainly horseshit, but I hoped it wasn’t. I
hoped I would see her. It would be a great story to tell Wendy, and in those
days, all my thoughts led back to her. If I bought this shirt, would Wendy

like it? If I wrote a story about a young girl getting her first kiss while on a
horseback ride, would Wendy enjoy it? If I saw the ghost of a murdered
girl, would Wendy be fascinated? Maybe enough to want to come down and
see for herself?
“There was a follow-up story in the Charleston News and Courier about
six months after the murder,” Mrs. Shoplaw said. “Turns out that since
1961, there have been four similar murders in Georgia and the Carolinas.
All young girls. One stabbed, three others with their throats cut. The
reporter dug up at least one cop who said all of them could have been killed
by the guy who murdered Linda Gray.”
“Beware the Funhouse Killer!” I said in a deep announcer-type voice.
“That’s exactly what the paper called him. Hungry, weren’t you? You ate
everything but the bowl. Now I think you’d better write me that check and
beat feet to the bus station, or you’re apt to be spending the night on my
sofa.”
Which looked comfortable enough, but I was anxious to get back north.
Two days left in spring break, and then I’d be back at school with my arm
around Wendy Keegan’s waist.
I took out my checkbook, scribbled, and by so doing rented a one-room
apartment with a charming ocean view that Wendy Keegan—my ladyfriend—never got a chance to sample. That room was where I sat up some
nights with my stereo turned down low, playing Jimi Hendrix and the
Doors, having those occasional thoughts of suicide. They were sophomoric
rather than serious, just the fantasies of an over-imaginative young man
with a heart condition…or so I tell myself now, all these years later, but
who really knows?
When it comes to the past, everyone writes fiction.
***
I tried to reach Wendy from the bus station, but her stepmom said she was
out with Renee. When the bus got to Wilmington I tried again, but she was
still out with Renee. I asked Nadine—the stepmom—if she had any idea
where they might have gone. Nadine said she didn’t. She sounded as if I
were the most uninteresting caller she’d gotten all day. Maybe all year.

Maybe in her life. I got along well enough with Wendy’s dad, but Nadine
Keegan was never one of my biggest fans.
Finally—I was in Boston by then—I got Wendy. She sounded sleepy,
although it was only eleven o’clock, which is the shank of the evening to
most college students on spring break. I told her I got the job.
“Hooray for you,” she said. “Are you on your way home?”
“Yes, as soon as I get my car.” And if it didn’t have a flat tire. In those
days I was always running on baldies and it seemed one of them was
always going flat. A spare, you ask? Pretty funny, señor. “I could spend the
night in Portsmouth instead of going straight home and see you tomorrow,
if—”
“Wouldn’t be a good idea. Renee’s staying over, and that’s about all the
company Nadine can take. You know how sensitive she is about company.”
Some company, maybe, but I thought Nadine and Renee had always
gotten on like a house afire, drinking endless cups of coffee and gossiping
about their favorite movie stars as if they were personal friends, but this
didn’t seem like the time to say so.
“Ordinarily I’d love to talk to you, Dev, but I was getting ready to turn in.
Me n Ren had a busy day. Shopping and…things.”
She didn’t elaborate on the things part, and I found I didn’t care to ask
about them. Another warning sign.
“Love you, Wendy.”
“Love you, too.” That sounded perfunctory rather than fervent. She’s just
tired, I told myself.
I rolled north out of Boston with a distinct feeling of unease. Something
about the way she had sounded? That lack of enthusiasm? I didn’t know. I
wasn’t sure I wanted to know. But I wondered. Sometimes even now, all
these years later, I wonder. She’s nothing to me these days but a scar and a
memory, someone who hurt me as young women will hurt young men from
time to time. A young woman from another life. Still I can’t help wondering
where she was that day. What those things were. And if it was really Renee
St. Clair she was with.
We could argue about what constitutes the creepiest line in pop music,
but for me it’s early Beatles—John Lennon, actually—singing I’d rather
see you dead, little girl, than to be with another man. I could tell you I
never felt that way about Wendy in the aftermath of the breakup, but it

would be a lie. It was never a constant thing, but did I think of her with a
certain malevolence in the aftermath of the breakup? Yes. There were long
and sleepless nights when I thought she deserved something bad—maybe
really bad—to happen to her for the way she hurt me. It dismayed me to
think that way, but sometimes I did. And then I would think about the man
who went into Horror House with his arm around Linda Gray and wearing
two shirts. The man with the bird on his hand and a straight razor in his
pocket.
***
In the spring of 1973—the last year of my childhood, when I look back on
it—I saw a future in which Wendy Keegan was Wendy Jones…or perhaps
Wendy Keegan-Jones, if she wanted to be modern and keep her maiden
name in the mix. There would be a house on a lake in Maine or New
Hampshire (maybe western Massachusetts) filled with the clatter-and-yell
of a couple of little Keegan-Joneses, a house where I wrote books that
weren’t exactly bestsellers but popular enough to keep us comfortably and
were—very important—well reviewed. Wendy would pursue her dream of
opening a small clothing boutique (also well reviewed), and I would teach a
few creative writing seminars, the kind gifted students vie to get into. None
of this ever happened, of course, so it was fitting that the last time we were
together as a couple was in the office of Professor George B. Nako, a man
who never was.
In the fall of 1968, returning University of New Hampshire students
discovered Professor Nako’s “office” under the stairs in the basement of
Hamilton Smith Hall. The space was papered with fake diplomas, peculiar
watercolors labeled Albanian Art, and seating plans with such names as
Elizabeth Taylor, Robert Zimmerman, and Lyndon Beans Johnson penciled
into the squares. There were also posted themes from students who never
existed. One, I remember, was titled “Sex Stars of the Orient.” Another was
called “The Early Poetry of Cthulhu: An Analysis.” There were three
standing ashtrays. A sign taped to the underside of the stairs read:
PROFESSOR NAKO SEZ: “THE SMOKING LAMP IS ALWAYS LIT!” There were a
couple of ratty easy chairs and an equally ratty sofa, very handy for students
in search of a comfy make-out spot.

The Wednesday before my last final was unseasonably hot and humid.
Around one in the afternoon, thunderheads began to build up, and around
four, when Wendy had agreed to meet me in George B. Nako’s underground
“office,” the skies opened and it began to pour. I got there first. Wendy
showed up five minutes later, soaked to the skin but in high good humor.
Droplets of water sparkled in her hair. She threw herself into my arms and
wriggled against me, laughing. Thunder boomed; the few hanging lights in
the gloomy basement hallway flickered.
“Hug me hug me hug me,” she said. “That rain is so cold.”
I warmed her up and she warmed me up. Pretty soon we were tangled
together on the ratty sofa, my left hand curled around her and cupping her
braless breast, my right far enough up her skirt to brush against silk and
lace. She let that one stay there for a minute or two, then sat up, moved
away from me, and fluffed her hair.
“Enough of that,” she said primly. “What if Professor Nako came in?”
“I don’t think that’s likely, do you?” I was smiling, but below the belt I
was feeling a familiar throb. Sometimes Wendy would relieve that throb—
she had become quite expert at what we used to call a “through-the-pants
job”—but I didn’t think this was going to be one of those days.
“One of his students, then,” she said. “Begging for a last-chance passing
grade. ‘Please, Professor Nako, please-please-please, I’ll do anything.’ ”
That wasn’t likely, either, but the chances of being interrupted were good,
she was right about that. Students were always dropping by to put up new
bogus themes or fresh works of Albanian art. The sofa was make-out
friendly, but the locale wasn’t. Once, maybe, but not since the understairs
nook had become a kind of mythic reference-point for students in the
College of Liberal Arts.
“How was your sociology final?” I asked her.
“Okay. I doubt if I aced it, but I know I passed it and that’s good enough
for me. Especially since it’s the last one.” She stretched, fingers touching
the zig-zag of the stairs above us and lifting her breasts most entrancingly.
“I’m out of here in…” She looked at her watch. “…exactly one hour and
ten minutes.”
“You and Renee?” I had no great liking for Wendy’s roommate, but knew
better than to say so. The one time I had, Wendy and I had had a brief, bitter
argument in which she accused me of trying to manage her life.

“That is correct, sir. She’ll drop me at my dad and stepmom’s. And in one
week, we’re official Filene’s employees!”
She made it sound as if the two of them had landed jobs as pages at the
White House, but I held my peace on that, too. I had other concerns.
“You’re still coming up to Berwick on Saturday, right?” The plan was for
her to arrive in the morning, spend the day, and stay over. She’d be in the
guest bedroom, of course, but that was only a dozen steps down the hall.
Given the fact that we might not see each other again until fall, I thought
the possibility of “it” happening was very strong. Of course, little children
believe in Santa Claus, and UNH freshmen sometimes went a whole
semester believing that George B. Nako was a real professor, teaching real
English courses.
“Absoloodle.” She looked around, saw no one, and slipped a hand up my
thigh. When it reached the crotch of my jeans, she tugged gently on what
she found there. “Come here, you.”
So I got my through-the-pants job after all. It was one of her better
efforts, slow and rhythmic. The thunder rolled, and at some point the sigh of
the pouring rain became a hard, hollow rattle as it turned to hail. At the end
she squeezed, heightening and prolonging the pleasure of my orgasm.
“Make sure to get good and wet when you go back to your dorm, or the
whole world will know exactly what we were doing down here.” She
bounced to her feet. “I have to go, Dev. I’ve still got some things to pack.”
“I’ll pick you up at noon on Saturday. My dad’s making his famous
chicken casserole for supper.”
She once more said absoloodle; like standing on her tiptoes to kiss me, it
was a Wendy Keegan trademark. Only on Friday night I got a call from her
saying that Renee’s plans had changed and they were leaving for Boston
two days early. “I’m sorry, Dev, but she’s my ride.”
“There’s always the bus,” I said, already knowing that wasn’t going to
work.
“I promised, honey. And we have tickets for Pippin, at the Imperial.
Renee’s dad got them for us, as a surprise.” She paused. “Be happy for me.
You’re going all the way to North Carolina, and I’m happy for you.”
“Happy,” I said. “Roger-wilco.”
“That’s better.” Her voice dropped, became confidential. “Next time
we’re together, I’ll make it up to you. Promise.”

That was a promise she never kept but one she never had to break, either,
because I never saw Wendy Keegan after that day in Professor Nako’s
“office.” There wasn’t even a final phone call filled with tears and
accusations. That was on Tom Kennedy’s advice (we’ll get to him shortly),
and it was probably a good thing. Wendy might have been expecting such a
call, maybe even wished for it. If so, she was disappointed.
I hope she was. All these years later, with those old fevers and deliriums
long in my past, I still hope she was.
Love leaves scars.
***
I never produced the books I dreamed of, those well-reviewed almostbestsellers, but I do make a pretty good living as a writer, and I count my
blessings; thousands are not so lucky. I’ve moved steadily up the income
ladder to where I am now, working at Commercial Flight, a periodical
you’ve probably never heard of.
A year after I took over as editor-in-chief, I found myself back on the
UNH campus. I was there to attend a two-day symposium on the future of
trade magazines in the twenty-first century. During a break on the second
day, I strolled over to Hamilton Smith Hall on a whim and peeked under the
basement stairs. The themes, celebrity-studded seating charts, and Albanian
artwork were gone. So were the chairs, the sofa, and the standing ashtrays.
And yet someone remembered. Scotch-taped to the underside of the stairs,
where there had once been a sign proclaiming that the smoking lamp was
always lit, I saw a sheet of paper with a single typed line in print so small I
had to lean close and stand on tiptoe in order to read it:
Professor Nako now teaches at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

Well, why not?
Why the fuck not?
As for Wendy, your guess is as good as mine. I suppose I could use
Google, that twenty-first century Magic 8-Ball, to chase her down and find
out if she ever realized her dream, the one of owning the exclusive little
boutique, but to what purpose? Gone is gone. Over is over. And after my
stint in Joyland (just down the beach from a town called Heaven’s Bay, let’s

not forget that), my broken heart seemed a lot less important. Mike and
Annie Ross had a lot to do with that.
***
My dad and I ended up eating his famous chicken casserole with no third
party in attendance, which was probably all right with Timothy Jones;
although he tried to hide it out of respect for me, I knew his feelings about
Wendy were about the same as mine about Wendy’s friend Renee. At the
time, I thought it was because he was a bit jealous of Wendy’s place in my
life. Now I think he saw her more clearly than I could. I can’t say for sure;
we never talked about it. I’m not sure men know how to talk about women
in any meaningful way.
After the meal was eaten and the dishes washed, we sat on the couch,
drinking beer, eating popcorn, and watching a movie starring Gene
Hackman as a tough cop with a foot fetish. I missed Wendy—probably at
that moment listening to the Pippin company sing “Spread a Little
Sunshine”—but there are advantages to the two-guy scenario, such as being
able to belch and fart without trying to cover it up.
The next day—my last at home—we went for a walk along the disused
railroad tracks that passed through the woods behind the house where I
grew up. Mom’s hard and fast rule had been that my friends and I had to
stay away from those tracks. The last GS&WM freight had passed along
them ten years before, and weeds were growing up between the rusty ties,
but that made no difference to Mom. She was convinced that if we played
there, one last train (call it the Kid-Eating Special) would go bulleting
through and turn us all to paste. Only she was the one who got hit by an
unscheduled train—metastatic breast cancer at the age of forty-seven. One
mean fucking express.
“I’ll miss having you around this summer,” my dad said.
“I’ll miss you, too.”
“Oh! Before I forget.” He reached into his breast pocket and brought out
a check. “Be sure to open an account and deposit it first thing. Ask them to
speed the clearance, if they can.”
I looked at the amount: not the five hundred I’d asked for, but a thousand.
“Dad, can you afford this?”

“Yes. Mostly because you held onto your Commons job, and that saved
me having to try and make up the difference. Think of it as a bonus.”
I kissed his cheek, which was scratchy. He hadn’t shaved that morning.
“Thanks.”
“Kid, you’re more welcome than you know.” He took a handkerchief
from his pocket and wiped his eyes matter-of-factly, without
embarrassment. “Sorry about the waterworks. It’s hard when your kids go
away. Someday you’ll find that out for yourself, but hopefully you’ll have a
good woman to keep you company after they’re gone.”
I thought of Mrs. Shoplaw saying Kids are such a risk. “Dad, are you
going to be okay?”
He put the handkerchief back in his pocket and gave me a grin, sunny
and unforced. “Call me once in a while, and I will be. Also, don’t let them
put you to work climbing all over one of their damned roller coasters.”
That actually sounded sort of exciting, but I told him I wouldn’t.
“And—” But I never heard what he meant to say next, advice or
admonition. He pointed. “Will you look at that!”
Fifty yards ahead of us, a doe had come out of the woods. She stepped
delicately over one rusty GS&WM track and onto the railbed, where the
weeds and goldenrod were so high they brushed against her sides. She
paused there, looking at us calmly, ears cocked forward. What I remember
about that moment was the silence. No bird sang, no plane went droning
overhead. If my mother had been with us, she’d have had her camera and
would have been taking pictures like mad. Thinking of that made me miss
her in a way I hadn’t in years.
I gave my father a quick, fierce hug. “I love you, Dad.”
“I know,” he said. “I know.”
When I looked back, the deer was gone. A day later, so was I.
***
When I got back to the big gray house at the end of Main Street in Heaven’s
Bay, the sign made of shells had been taken down and put in storage,
because Mrs. Shoplaw had a full house for the summer. I blessed Lane
Hardy for telling me to nail down a place to live. Joyland’s summer troops
had arrived, and every rooming house in town was full.

I shared the second floor with Tina Ackerley, the librarian. Mrs. Shoplaw
had rented the accommodations on the third floor to a willowy redheaded
art major named Erin Cook and a stocky undergrad from Rutgers named
Tom Kennedy. Erin, who had taken photography courses both in high
school and at Bard, had been hired as a Hollywood Girl. As for Tom and
me…
“Happy Helpers,” he said. “General employment, in other words. That’s
what that guy Fred Dean checked on my application. You?”
“The same,” I said. “I think it means we’re janitors.”
“I doubt it.”
“Really? Why?”
“Because we’re white,” he said, and although we did our share of cleanup chores, he turned out to be largely correct. The custodial crew—twenty
men and over thirty women who dressed in coveralls with Howie the Happy
Hound patches sewn on the breast pockets—were all Haitians and
Dominicans, and almost surely undocumented. They lived in their own little
village ten miles inland and were shuttled back and forth in a pair of retired
school buses. Tom and I were making four dollars an hour; Erin a little
more. God knows what the cleaners were making. They were exploited, of
course, and saying that there were undocumented workers all over the south
who had it far worse doesn’t excuse it, nor does pointing out that it was
forty years ago. Although there was this: they never had to put on the fur.
Neither did Erin.
Tom and I did.
***
On the night before our first day at work, the three of us were sitting in the
parlor of Maison Shoplaw, getting to know each other and speculating on
the summer ahead. As we talked, the moon rose over the Atlantic, as calmly
beautiful as the doe my father and I had seen standing on the old railroad
tracks.
“It’s an amusement park, for God’s sake,” Erin said. “How tough can it
be?”
“Easy for you to say,” Tom told her. “No one’s going to expect you to
hose down the Whirly Cups after every brat in Cub Scout Pack 18 loses his

lunch halfway through the ride.”
“I’ll pitch in where I have to,” she said. “If it includes mopping up vomit
as well as snapping pictures, so be it. I need this job. I’ve got grad school
staring me in the face next year, and I’m exactly two steps from broke.”
“We all ought to try and get on the same team,” Tom said—and, as it
turned out, we did. All the work teams at Joyland had doggy names, and
ours was Team Beagle.
Just then Emmalina Shoplaw entered the parlor, carrying a tray with five
champagne flutes on it. Miss Ackerley, a beanpole with huge bespectacled
eyes that gave her a Joyce Carol Oatesian look, walked beside her, bottle in
hand. Tom Kennedy brightened. “Do I spy French ginger ale? That looks
just a leetle too elegant to be supermarket plonk.”
“Champagne it is,” Mrs. Shoplaw said, “although if you’re expecting
Moet et Chandon, young Mr. Kennedy, you’re in for a disappointment. This
isn’t Cold Duck, but it’s not the high-priced spread, either.”
“I can’t speak for my new co-workers,” Tom said, “but as someone who
educated his palate on Apple Zapple, I don’t think I’ll be disappointed.”
Mrs. Shoplaw smiled. “I always mark the beginning of summer this way,
for good luck. It seems to work. I haven’t lost a seasonal hire yet. Each of
you take a glass, please.” We did as we were told. “Tina, will you pour?”
When the flutes were full, Mrs. Shoplaw raised hers and we raised ours.
“Here is to Erin, Tom, and Devin,” she said. “May they have a wonderful
summer, and wear the fur only when the temperature is below eighty
degrees.”
We clinked glasses and drank. Maybe not the high-priced spread, but
pretty damned good, and with enough left for us all to have another
swallow. This time it was Tom who offered the toast. “Here’s to Mrs.
Shoplaw, who gives us shelter from the storm!”
“Why, thank you, Tom, that’s lovely. It won’t get you a discount on the
rent, though.”
We drank. I set my glass down feeling just the tiniest bit buzzy. “What is
this about wearing the fur?” I asked.
Mrs. Shoplaw and Miss Ackerley looked at each other and smiled. It was
the librarian who answered, although it wasn’t really an answer at all.
“You’ll find out,” she said.

“Don’t stay up late, children,” Mrs. Shoplaw advised. “You’ve got an
early call. Your career in show business awaits.”
***
The call was early: seven AM, two hours before the park opened its doors on
another summer. The three of us walked down the beach together. Tom
talked most of the way. He always talked. It would have been wearisome if
he hadn’t been so amusing and relentlessly cheerful. I could see from the
way Erin (walking in the surf with her sneakers dangling from the fingers of
her left hand) looked at him that she was charmed and fascinated. I envied
Tom his ability to do that. He was heavyset and at least three doors down
from handsome, but he was energetic and possessed of the gift of gab I
sadly lacked. Remember the old joke about the starlet who was so clueless
she fucked the writer?
“Man, how much do you think the people who own those places are
worth?” he asked, waving an arm at the houses on Beach Row. We were
just passing the big green one that looked like a castle, but there was no
sign of the woman and the boy in the wheelchair that day. Annie and Mike
Ross came later.
“Millions, probably,” Erin said. “It ain’t the Hamptons, but as my dad
would say, it ain’t cheeseburgers.”
“The amusement park probably brings the property values down a little,”
I said. I was looking at Joyland’s three most distinctive landmarks,
silhouetted against the blue morning sky: Thunderball, Delirium Shaker,
Carolina Spin.
“Nah, you don’t understand the rich-guy mindset,” Tom said. “It’s like
when they pass bums looking for handouts on the street. They just erase em
from their field of vision. Bums? What bums? And that park, same deal—
what park? People who own these houses live, like, on another plane of
existence.” He stopped, shading his eyes and looking at the green Victorian
that was going to play such a large part in my life that fall, after Erin Cook
and Tom Kennedy, by then a couple, had gone back to school. “That one’s
gonna be mine. I’ll be expecting to take possession on…mmm… June first,
1987.”
“I’ll bring the champagne,” Erin said, and we all laughed.

***
I saw Joyland’s entire crew of summer hires in one place for the first and
last time that morning. We gathered in Surf Auditorium, the concert hall
where all those B-list country acts and aging rockers performed. There were
almost two hundred of us. Most, like Tom, Erin, and me, were college
students willing to work for peanuts. Some of the full-timers were there, as
well. I saw Rozzie Gold, today dressed for work in her gypsy duds and
dangly earrings. Lane Hardy was up on stage, placing a mike at the podium
and then checking it with a series of thudding finger-taps. His derby was
present and accounted for, cocked at its usual just-so angle. I don’t know
how he picked me out in all those milling kids, but he did, and sketched a
little salute off the tilted brim of his lid. I sent him one right back.
He finished his work, nodded, jumped off the stage, and took the seat
Rozzie had been saving for him. Fred Dean walked briskly out from the
wings. “Be seated, please, all of you be seated. Before you get your team
assignments, the owner of Joyland—and your employer—would like to say
a few words. Please give a hand to Mr. Bradley Easterbrook.”
We did as we were told, and an old man emerged from the wings,
walking with the careful, high-stepping strides of someone with bad hips, a
bad back, or both. He was tall and amazingly thin, dressed in a black suit
that made him look more like an undertaker than a man who owned an
amusement park. His face was long, pale, covered with bumps and moles.
Shaving must have been torture for him, but he had a clean one. Ebony hair
that had surely come out of a bottle was swept back from his deeply lined
brow. He stood beside the podium, his enormous hands—they seemed to be
nothing but knuckles—clasped before him. His eyes were set deep in
pouched sockets.
Age looked at youth, and youth’s applause first weakened, then died.
I’m not sure what we expected; possibly a mournful foghorn voice telling
us that the Red Death would soon hold sway over all. Then he smiled, and it
lit him up like a jukebox. You could almost hear a sigh of relief rustle
through the summer hires. I found out later that was the summer Bradley
Easterbrook turned ninety-three.
“You guys,” he said, “welcome to Joyland.” And then, before stepping
behind the podium, he actually bowed to us. He took several seconds

adjusting the mike, which produced a series of amplified screeks and
scronks. He never took his sunken eyes from us as he did it.
“I see many returning faces, a thing that always makes me happy. For
you greenies, I hope this will be the best summer of your lives, the
yardstick by which you judge all your future employment. That is no doubt
an extravagant wish, but anyone who runs a place like this year in and year
out must have a wide streak of extravagance. For certain you’ll never have
another job like it.”
He surveyed us, giving the poor mike’s articulated neck another twist as
he did so.
“In a few moments, Mr. Dean and Mrs. Brenda Rafferty, who is queen of
the front office, will give you your team assignments. There will be seven
of you to a team, and you will be expected to act as a team and work as a
team. Your team’s tasks will be assigned by your team leader and will vary
from week to week, sometimes from day to day. If variety is the spice of
life, you will find the next three months very spicy, indeed. I hope you will
keep one thought foremost in your mind, young ladies and gentlemen. Will
you do that?”
He paused as if expecting us to answer, but nobody made a sound. We
only looked at him, a very old man in a black suit and a white shirt open at
the collar. When he spoke again, it might have been himself he was talking
to, at least to begin with.
“This is a badly broken world, full of wars and cruelty and senseless
tragedy. Every human being who inhabits it is served his or her portion of
unhappiness and wakeful nights. Those of you who don’t already know that
will come to know it. Given such sad but undeniable facts of the human
condition, you have been given a priceless gift this summer: you are here to
sell fun. In exchange for the hard-earned dollars of your customers, you will
parcel out happiness. Children will go home and dream of what they saw
here and what they did here. I hope you will remember that when the work
is hard, as it sometimes will be, or when people are rude, as they often will
be, or when you feel your best efforts have gone unappreciated. This is a
different world, one that has its own customs and its own language, which
we simply call the Talk. You’ll begin learning it today. As you learn to talk
the Talk, you’ll learn to walk the walk. I’m not going to explain that,
because it can’t be explained; it can only be learned.”

Tom leaned close to me and whispered, “Talk the talk? Walk the walk?
Did we just wander into an AA meeting?”
I hushed him. I had come in expecting to get a list of commandments,
mostly thou shalt nots; instead I had gotten a kind of rough poetry, and I
was delighted. Bradley Easterbrook surveyed us, then suddenly displayed
those horsey teeth in another grin. This one looked big enough to eat the
world. Erin Cook was staring at him raptly. So were most of the new
summer hires. It was the way students stare at a teacher who offers a new
and possibly wonderful way of looking at reality.
“I hope you’ll enjoy your work here, but when you don’t—when, for
instance, it’s your turn to wear the fur—try to remember how privileged you
are. In a sad and dark world, we are a little island of happiness. Many of
you already have plans for your lives—you hope to become doctors,
lawyers, I don’t know, politicians—”
“OH-GOD-NO!” someone shouted, to general laughter.
I would have said Easterbrook’s grin could not possibly have widened,
but it did. Tom was shaking his head, but he had also given in. “Okay, now I
get it,” he whispered in my ear. “This guy is the Jesus of Fun.”
“You’ll have interesting, fruitful lives, my young friends. You’ll do many
good things and have many remarkable experiences. But I hope you’ll
always look back on your time in Joyland as something special. We don’t
sell furniture. We don’t sell cars. We don’t sell land or houses or retirement
funds. We have no political agenda. We sell fun. Never forget that. Thank
you for your attention. Now go forth.”
He stepped away from the podium, gave another bow, and left the stage
in that same painful, high-stepping stride. He was gone almost before the
applause began. It was one of the best speeches I ever heard, because it was
truth rather than horseshit. I mean, listen: how many rubes can put sold fun
for three months in 1973 on their resumes?
***
All the team leaders were long-time Joyland employees who worked the
carny circuit as showies in the off-season. Most were also on the Park
Services Committee, which meant they had to deal with state and federal

regulations (both very loose in 1973), and field customer complaints. That
summer most of the complaints were about the new no-smoking policy.
Our team leader was a peppy little guy named Gary Allen, a seventysomething who ran the Annie Oakley Shootin’ Gallery. Only none of us
called it that after the first day. In the Talk, a shooting gallery was a bangshy and Gary was the bang-shy agent. The seven of us on Team Beagle met
him at his joint, where he was setting out rifles on chains. My first official
Joyland job—along with Erin, Tom, and the other four guys on the team—
was putting the prizes on the shelves. The ones that got pride of place were
the big fuzzy stuffed animals that hardly anyone ever won…although, Gary
said, he was careful to give out at least one every evening when the tip was
hot.
“I like the marks,” he said. “Yes I do. And the marks I like the best are
the points, by which I mean the purty girls, and the points I like the best are
the ones who wear the low-cut tops and bend forrad to shoot like this.” He
snatched up a .22 modified to shoot BBs (it had also been modified to make
a loud and satisfying bang with each trigger-pull) and leaned forward to
demonstrate.
“When a guy does that, I notify em that they’re foulin the line. The
points? Never.”
Ronnie Houston, a bespectacled, anxious-looking young man wearing a
Florida State University cap, said: “I don’t see any foul line, Mr. Allen.”
Gary looked at him, hands fisted on nonexistent hips. His jeans seemed
to be staying up in defiance of gravity. “Listen up, son, I got three things for
you. Ready?”
Ronnie nodded. He looked like he wanted to take notes. He also looked
like he wanted to hide behind the rest of us.
“First thing. You can call me Gary or Pop or come here you old
sonofabitch, but I ain’t no schoolteacher, so can the mister. Second thing. I
never want to see that fucking schoolboy hat on your head again. Third
thing. The foul line is wherever I say the foul line is on any given night. I
can do that because it’s in my myyyyynd.” He tapped one sunken, veingnarled temple to make this point perfectly clear, then waved at the prizes,
the targets, and the counter where the conies—the rubes—laid down their
mooch. “This is all in my myyyyynd. The shy is mental. Geddit?”
Ronnie didn’t, but he nodded vigorously.

“Now whip off that turdish-looking schoolboy hat. Get you a Joyland
visor or a Howie the Happy Hound dogtop. Make it Job One.”
Ronnie whipped off his FSU lid with alacrity, and stuck it in his back
pocket. Later that day—I believe within the hour—he replaced it with a
Howie cap, known in the Talk as a dogtop. After three days of ribbing and
being called greenie, he took his new dogtop out to the parking lot, found a
nice greasy spot, and trompled it for a while. When he put it back on, it had
the right look. Or almost. Ronnie Houston never got the complete right
look; some people were just destined to be greenies forever. I remember
Tom sidling up to him one day and suggesting that he needed to piss on it a
little to give it that final touch that means so much. When he saw Ronnie
was on the verge of taking him seriously, Tom backpedaled and said just
soaking it in the Atlantic would achieve the same effect.
Meanwhile, Pop was surveying us.
“Speaking of good-looking ladies, I perceive we have one among us.”
Erin smiled modestly.
“Hollywood Girl, darlin?”
“That’s what Mr. Dean said I’d be doing, yes.”
“Then you want to go see Brenda Rafferty. She’s second-in-command
around here, and she’s also the park Girl Mom. She’ll get you fitted up with
one of those cute green dresses. Tell her you want yours extra-short.”
“The hell I will, you old lecher,” Erin said, and promptly joined him
when he threw back his head and bellowed laughter.
“Pert! Sassy! Do I like it? I do! When you’re not snappin pix of the
conies, you come on back to your Pop and I’ll find you something to do…
but change out of the dress first. You don’t get grease or sawdust on it.
Kapish?”
“Yes,” Erin said. She was all business again.
Pop Allen looked at his watch. “Park opens in one hour, kiddies, then
you’ll learn while you earn. Start with the rides.” He pointed to us one by
one, naming rides. I got the Carolina Spin, which pleased me. “Got time for
a question or two, but no more’n that. Anybody got one or are you good to
go?”
I raised my hand. He nodded at me and asked my name.
“Devin Jones, sir.”
“Call me sir again and you’re fired, lad.”

“Devin Jones, Pop.” I certainly wasn’t going to call him come here you
old sonofoabitch, at least not yet. Maybe when we knew each other better.
“There you go,” he said, nodding. “What’s on your mind, Jonesy?
Besides that foine head of red hair?”
“What’s carny-from-carny mean?”
“Means you’re like old man Easterbrook. His father worked the carny
circuit back in the Dust Bowl days, and his grandfather worked it back
when they had a fake Indian show featuring Big Chief Yowlatcha.”
“You got to be kidding!” Tom exclaimed, almost exultantly.
Pop gave him a cool stare that settled Tom down—a thing not always
easy to do. “Son, do you know what history is?”
“Uh…stuff that happened in the past?”
“Nope,” he said, tying on his canvas change-belt. “History is the
collective and ancestral shit of the human race, a great big and ever-growin
pile of crap. Right now we’re standin at the top of it, but pretty soon we’ll
be buried under the doodoo of generations yet to come. That’s why your
folks’ clothes look so funny in old photographs, to name but a single
example. And, as someone who’s destined to be buried beneath the shit of
your children and grandchildren, I think you should be just a leetle more
forgiving.”
Tom opened his mouth, probably to make a smart comeback, then wisely
closed it again.
George Preston, another member of Team Beagle, spoke up. “Are you
carny-from-carny?”
“Nope. My daddy was a cattle rancher in Oregon; now my brothers run
the spread. I’m the black sheep of the family, and damn proud of it. Okay, if
there’s nothing else, it’s time to quit the foolishness and get down to
business.”
“Can I ask one thing more?” Erin asked.
“Only because you’re purty.”
“What does ‘wearing the fur’ mean?”
Pop Allen smiled. He placed his hands on the mooch-counter of his shy.
“Tell me, little lady, do you have an idea what it might mean?”
“Well…yes.”
The smile widened into a grin that showed every yellowing fang in our
new team leader’s mouth. “Then you’re probably right.”

***
What did I do at Joyland that summer? Everything. Sold tickets. Pushed a
popcorn wagon. Sold funnel cakes, cotton candy, and a zillion hot dogs
(which we called Hound Dogs—you probably knew that). It was a Hound
Dog that got my picture in the paper, as a matter of fact, although I wasn’t
the guy who sold that unlucky pup; George Preston did. I worked as a
lifeguard, both on the beach and at Happy Lake, the indoor pool where the
Splash & Crash water slide ended. I line-danced in the Wiggle-Waggle
Village with the other members of Team Beagle to “Bird Dance Beat,”
“Does Your Chewing Gum Lose Its Flavor on the Bedpost Overnight,”
“Rippy-Rappy, Zippy-Zappy,” and a dozen other nonsense songs. I also did
time—most of it happy—as an unlicensed child-minder. In the WiggleWaggle, the approved rallying cry when faced with a bawling kiddie was
“Let’s turn that frown upside down!” and I not only liked it, I got good at it.
It was in the Wiggle-Waggle that I decided having kids at some point in the
future was an actual Good Idea rather than a Wendy-flavored daydream.
I—and all the other Happy Helpers—learned to race from one side of
Joyland to the other in nothing flat, using either the alleys behind the shys,
joints, rides, and concessions or one of three service-tunnels known as
Joyland Under, Hound Dog Under, and the Boulevard. I hauled trash by the
ton, usually driving it in an electric cart down the Boulevard, a shadowy
and sinister thoroughfare lit by ancient fluorescent bar-lights that stuttered
and buzzed. I even worked a few times as a roadie, hauling amps and
monitors when one of the acts showed up late and unsupported.
I learned to talk the Talk. Some of it—like bally for a free show, or gone
larry for a ride that had broken down—was pure carny, and as old as the
hills. Other terms—like points for purty girls and fumps for the chronic
complainers—were strictly Joyland lingo. I suppose other parks have their
own version of the Talk, but underneath it’s always carny-from-carny. A
hammer-squash is a cony (usually a fump) who bitches about having to wait
in line. The last hour of the day (at Joyland, that was ten PM to eleven) was
the blow-off. A cony who loses at some shy and wants his mooch back is a
mooch-hammer. The donniker is the bathroom, as in “Hey, Jonesy, hustle
down to the donniker by the Moon Rocket—some dumb fump just puked in
one of the sinks.”

Running the concessions (known as joints) came easy to most of us, and
really, anyone who can make change is qualified to push the popcorn wagon
or work the counter of a souvenir shop. Learning to ride-jock wasn’t much
more difficult, but it was scary at first, because there were lives in your
hands, many those of little children.
***
“Here for your lesson?” Lane Hardy asked me when I joined him at the
Carolina Spin. “Good. Just in time. Park opens in twenty minutes. We do it
the way they do in the navy—see one, do one, teach one. Right now that
heavyset kid you were standing next to—”
“Tom Kennedy.”
“Okay. Right now Tom’s over learning the Devil Wagons. At some point
—probably this very day—he’s gonna teach you how to run the ride, and
you’ll teach him how to run the Spin. Which, by the way, is an Aussie
Wheel, meaning it runs counterclockwise.”
“Is that important?”
“Nope,” he said, “but I think it’s interesting. There are only a few in the
States. It has two speeds: slow and really slow.”
“Because it’s a grandma ride.”
“Correctamundo.” He demonstrated with the long stick shift I’d seen him
operating on the day I got my job, then made me take over the stick with the
bicycle hand-grip at the top. “Feel it click when it’s in gear?”
“Yes.”
“Here’s stop.” He put his hand over mine and pulled the lever all the way
up. This time the click was harder, and the enormous wheel stopped at once,
the cars rocking gently. “With me so far?”
“I guess so. Listen, don’t I need a permit or a license or something to run
this thing?”
“You got a license, don’t you?”
“Sure, a Maine driver’s license, but—”
“In North Carolina, a valid DL’s all you need. They’ll get around to
additional regulations in time—they always do—but for this year, at least,
you’re good to go. Now pay attention, because this is the most important
part. Do you see that yellow stripe on the side of the housing?”

I did. It was just to the right of the ramp leading up to the ride.
“Each car has a Happy Hound decal on the door. When you see the
Hound lining up with the yellow stripe, you pull stop, and there’ll be a car
right where the folks get on.” He yanked the lever forward again. “See?”
I said I did.
“Until the wheel’s tipsed—”
“What?”
“Loaded. Tipsed means loaded. Don’t ask me why. Until the wheel’s
tipsed, you just alternate between super-slow and stop. Once you’ve got a
full load—which you’ll have most of the time, if we have a good season—
you go to the normal slow speed. They get four minutes.” He pointed to his
suitcase radio. “It’s my boomie, but the rule is when you run the ride, you
control the tunes. Just no real blasting rock and roll—Who, Zep, Stones,
stuff like that—until after the sun goes down. Got it?”
“Yeah. What about letting them off?”
“Exactly the same. Super-slow, stop. Super-slow, stop. Always line up
the yellow stripe with the Happy Hound, and you’ll always have a car right
at the ramp. You should be able to get ten spins an hour. If the wheel’s
loaded each time, that’s over seven hundred customers, which comes to
almost a d-note.”
“Which is what, in English?”
“Five hundred.”
I looked at him uncertainly. “I won’t really have to do this, will I? I
mean, it’s your ride.”
“It’s Brad Easterbrook’s ride, kiddo. They all are. I’m just another
employee, although I’ve been here a few years. I’ll run the hoister most of
the time, but not all of the time. And hey, stop sweating. There are carnies
where half-drunk bikers covered with tattoos do this, and if they can, you
can.”
“If you say so.”
Lane pointed. “Gates’re open and here come the conies, rolling down
Joyland Avenue. You’re going to stick with me for the first three rides.
Later on you teach the rest of your team, and that includes your Hollywood
Girl. Okay?”
It wasn’t even close to okay—I was supposed to send people a hundred
and seventy feet in the air after a five-minute tutorial? It was insane.

He gripped my shoulder. “You can do this, Jonesy. So never mind ‘if you
say so.’ Tell me it’s okay.”
“It’s okay,” I said.
“Good boy.” He turned on his radio, now hooked to a speaker high on the
Spin’s frame. The Hollies began to sing “Long Cool Woman in a Black
Dress” as Lane took a pair of rawhide gloves from the back pocket of his
jeans. “And get you a pair of these—you’re going to need them. Also, you
better start learning how to pitch.” He bent down, grabbed a hand-held mike
from the ever-present orange crate, put one foot up, and began to work the
crowd.
“Hey folks welcome in, time to take a little spin, hurry hurry, summer
won’t last forever, take a ride upstairs where the air is rare, this is where the
fun begins, step over here and ride the Spin.”
He lowered the mike and gave me a wink. “That’s my pitch, more or less;
give me a drink or three and it gets a lot better. You work out your own.”
The first time I ran the Spin by myself, my hands were shaking with
terror, but by the end of that first week I was running it like a pro (although
Lane said my pitch needed a lot of work). I was also capable of running the
Whirly Cups and the Devil Wagons…although ride-jocking the latter came
down to little more than pushing the green START button, the red STOP
button, and getting the cars untangled when the rubes got them stuck
together against the rubber bumpers, which was at least four times during
each four-minute ride. Only when you were running the Devil Wagons, you
didn’t call them rides; each run was a spree.
I learned the Talk; I learned the geography, both above and below
ground; I learned how to run a joint, take over a shy, and award plushies to
good-looking points. It took a week or so to get most of it down, and it was
two weeks before I started getting comfortable. Wearing the fur, however, I
understood by twelve-thirty on my first day, and it was just my luck—good
or bad—that Bradley Easterbrook happened to be in Wiggle-Waggle Village
at the time, sitting on a bench and eating his usual lunch of bean sprouts and
tofu—hardly amusement park chow, but let’s keep in mind that the man’s
food-processing system hadn’t been new since the days of bathtub gin and
flappers.

After my first impromptu performance as Howie the Happy Hound, I
wore the fur a lot. Because I was good at it, you see. And Mr. Easterbrook
knew I was good at it. I was wearing it a month or so later, when I met the
little girl in the red hat on Joyland Avenue.
***
That first day was a madhouse, all right. I ran the Carolina Spin with Lane
until ten o’clock, then alone for the next ninety minutes while he rushed
around the park putting out opening day fires. By then I no longer believed
the wheel was going to malfunction and start running out of control, like the
merry-go-round in that old Alfred Hitchcock movie. The most terrifying
thing was how trusting people were. Not a single dad with kids in tow
detoured to my pitch to ask if I knew what I was doing. I didn’t get as many
spins as I should have—I was concentrating so hard on that damn yellow
stripe that I gave myself a headache—but every spin I did get was tipsed.
Erin came by once, pretty as a picture in her green Hollywood Girl dress,
and took pictures of some of the family groups waiting to get on. She took
one of me, too—I still have it somewhere. When the wheel was turning
again, she gripped me by the arm, little beads of sweat standing out on her
forehead, her lips parted in a smile, her eyes shining.
“Is this great, or what?” she asked.
“As long as I don’t kill anybody, yeah,” I said.
“If some little kid falls out of a car, just make sure you catch him.” Then,
having given me something new to obsess about, she jogged off in search of
new photo subjects. There was no shortage of people willing to pose for a
gorgeous redhead on a summer morning. And she was right, actually. It was
pretty great.
Around eleven-thirty, Lane came back. By that point, I was comfortable
enough ride-jocking the Spin to turn the rudimentary controls over to him
with some reluctance.
“Who’s your team leader, Jonesy? Gary Allen?”
“That’s right.”
“Well, go on over to his bang-shy and see what he’s got for you. If you’re
lucky, he’ll send you down to the boneyard for lunch.”
“What’s the boneyard?”

“Where the help goes when they’ve got time off. Most carnies, it’s the
parking lot or out behind the trucks, but Joyland’s lux. There’s a nice breakroom where the Boulevard and Hound Dog Under connect. Take the stairs
between the balloon-pitch and the knife-show. You’ll like it, but you only
eat if Pop says it’s okay. I ain’t getting in dutch with that old bastard. His
team is his team; I got my own. You got a dinner bucket?”
“Didn’t know I was supposed to bring one.”
He grinned. “You’ll learn. For today, stop at Ernie’s joint—the fried
chicken place with the big plastic rooster on top. Show him your Joyland ID
card and he’ll give you the company discount.”
I did end up eating fried chicken at Ernie’s, but not until two that
afternoon. Pop had other plans for me. “Go by the costume shop—it’s the
trailer between Park Services and the carpentry shop. Tell Dottie Lassen I
sent you. Damn woman’s busting her girdle.”
“Want me to help you reload first?” The Shootin’ Gallery was also
tipsed, the counter crowded with high school kids anxious to win those
elusive plushies. More rubes (so I was already thinking of them) were lined
up three deep behind the current shooters. Pop Allen’s hands never stopped
moving as he talked to me.
“What I want is for you to get on your pony and ride. I was doin this shit
long before you were born. Which one are you, anyway, Jonesy or
Kennedy? I know you’re not the dingbat in the college-boy hat, but beyond
that I can’t remember.”
“I’m Jonesy.”
“Well, Jonesy, you’re going to spend an edifying hour in the WiggleWaggle. It’ll be edifying for the kiddies, anyhow. For you, maybe not so
much.” He bared his yellow fangs in a trademark Pop Allen grin, the one
that made him look like an elderly shark. “Enjoy that fur suit.”
***
The costume shop was also a madhouse, filled with women running every
whichway. Dottie Lassen, a skinny lady who needed a girdle like I needed
elevator shoes, fell on me the second I walked through the door. She hooked
her long-nailed fingers into my armpit and dragged me past clown
costumes, cowboy costumes, a huge Uncle Sam suit (with stilts leaning

beside it against the wall), a couple of princess outfits, a rack of Hollywood
Girl dresses, and a rack of old-fashioned Gay Nineties bathing suits…
which, I found out, we were condemned to wear when on lifeguard duty. At
the very back of her crowded little empire were a dozen deflated dogs.
Howies, in fact, complete with the Happy Hound’s delighted stupid-andloving-it grin, his big blue eyes, and his fuzzy cocked ears. Zippers ran
down the backs of the suits from the neck to the base of the tail.
“Christ, you’re a big one,” Dottie said. “Thank God I got the extra-large
mended last week. The last kid who wore it ripped it out under both arms.
There was a hole under the tail, too. He must have been eating Mexican
food.” She snatched the XL Howie off the rack and slammed it into my
arms. The tail curled around my leg like a python. “You’re going to the
Wiggle-Waggle, and I mean chop-fucking-chop. Butch Hadley was
supposed to take care of that from Team Corgi—or so I thought—but he
says his whole team’s out with a key to the midway.” I had no idea what
that meant, and Dottie gave me no time to ask. She rolled her eyes in a way
that indicated either good humor or the onset of madness, and continued.
“You say ‘What’s the big deal?’ I’ll tell you what’s the big deal, greenie:
Mr. Easterbrook usually eats his lunch there, he always eats it there on the
first day we’re running full-out, and if there’s no Howie, he’ll be very
disappointed.”
“Like as in someone will get fired?”
“No, as in very disappointed. Stick around awhile and you’ll know that’s
plenty bad enough. No one wants to disappoint him, because he’s a great
man. Which is nice, I suppose, but what’s more important is he’s a good
guy. In this business, good guys are scarcer than hen’s teeth.” She looked at
me and made a sound like a small animal with its paw caught in a trap.
“Dear Christ, you’re a big one. And green as grass. But it can’t be helped.”
I had a billion questions, but my tongue was frozen. All I could do was
stare at the deflated Howie. Who stared back at me. Do you know what I
felt like just then? James Bond, in the movie where he’s tied to some kind
of crazy exercise gadget. Do you expect me to talk? he asks Gold-finger,
and Goldfinger replies, with chilling good humor, No, Mr. Bond! I expect
you to die! I was tied to a happiness machine instead of an exercise
machine, but hey, same idea. No matter how hard I worked to keep up on
that first day, the damn thing just kept going faster.

“Take it down to the boneyard, kid. Please tell me you know where that
is.”
“I do.” Thank God Lane had told me.
“Well, that’s one for the home team, anyway. When you get there, strip
down to your undies. If you wear more than that while you’re wearing the
fur, you’ll roast. And…anybody ever tell you the First Rule of Carny, kid?”
I thought so, but it seemed safer to keep my mouth shut.
“Always know where your wallet is. This park isn’t anywhere near as
sleazy as some of the places I worked in the flower of my youth—thank
God—but that’s still the First Rule. Give it to me, I’ll keep it for you.”
I handed over my wallet without protest.
“Now go. But even before you strip down, drink a lot of water. I mean
until your belly feels swollen. And don’t eat anything, I don’t care how
hungry you are. I’ve had kids get heatstroke and barf in Howie suits, and
the results ain’t pretty. Suit almost always has to be thrown out. Drink, strip,
put on the fur, get someone to zip you up, then hustle down the Boulevard
to the Wiggle-Waggle. There’s a sign, you can’t miss it.”
I looked doubtfully at Howie’s big blue eyes.
“They’re screen mesh,” she said. “Don’t worry, you’ll see fine.”
“But what do I do?”
She looked at me, at first unsmiling. Then her face—not just her mouth
and eyes but her whole face—broke into a grin. The laugh that
accompanied it was this weird honk that seemed to come through her nose.
“You’ll be fine,” she said. People kept telling me that. “It’s method acting,
kiddo. Just find your inner dog.”
***
There were over a dozen new hires and a handful of old-timers having
lunch in the boneyard when I arrived. Two of the greenies were Hollywood
Girls, but I had no time to be modest. After gulping a bellyful from the
drinking fountain, I shucked down to my Jockeys and sneakers. I shook out
the Howie costume and stepped in, making sure to get my feet all the way
down in the back paws.
“Fur!” one of the old-timers yelled, and slammed a fist down on the
table. “Fur! Fur! Fur!”

The others took it up, and the boneyard rang with the chant as I stood
there in my underwear with a deflated Howie puddled around my shins. It
was like being in the middle of a prison messhall riot. Rarely have I felt so
exquisitely stupid…or so oddly heroic. It was showbiz, after all, and I was
stepping into the breach. For a moment it didn’t matter that I didn’t know
what the fuck I was doing.
“Fur! Fur! FUR! FUR!”
“Somebody zip me the hell up!” I shouted. “I have to get down to the
Wiggle-Waggle posthaste!”
One of the girls did the honors, and I immediately saw why wearing the
fur was such a big deal. The boneyard was air conditioned—all of Joyland
Under was—but I was already popping hard sweat.
One of the old-timers came over and gave me a kindly pat on my Howiehead. “I’ll give you a ride, son,” he said. “Cart’s right there. Jump in.”
“Thanks.” My voice was muffled.
“Woof-woof, Bowser!” someone called, and they all cracked up.
We rolled down the Boulevard with its spooky, stuttering fluorescent
lights, a grizzled old guy in janitor’s greens with a giant blue-eyed German
Shepherd riding co-pilot. As he pulled up at the stairs marked with an arrow
and the painted legend WIGWAG on the cinder-blocks, he said: “Don’t talk.
Howie never talks, just gives hugs and pats em on the head. Good luck, and
if you start feelin all swimmy, get the hell out. The kids don’t want to see
Howie flop over with heatstroke.”
“I have no idea what I’m supposed to do,” I said. “Nobody’s told me.”
I don’t know if that guy was carny-from-carny or not, but he knew
something about Joyland. “It don’t matter. The kids all love Howie. They’ll
know what to do.”
I clambered out of the cart, almost tripped over my tail, then grasped the
string in the left front paw and gave it a yank to get the damn thing out of
my way. I staggered up the stairs and fumbled with the lever of the door at
the top. I could hear music, something vaguely remembered from my early
childhood. I finally got the lever to go down. The door opened and bright
Junelight flooded through Howie’s screen-mesh blue eyes, momentarily
dazzling me.

The music was louder now, being piped from overhead speakers, and I
could put a name to it: “The Hokey Pokey,” that all-time nursery school hit.
I saw swings, slides, and teeter-totters, an elaborate jungle gym, and a
roundy-round being pushed by a greenie wearing long fuzzy rabbit ears and
a powder-puff tail stuck to the seat of his jeans. The Choo-Choo Wiggle, a
toy train capable of dazzling speeds approaching four miles an hour,
steamed by, loaded with little kids dutifully waving to their camera-toting
parents. About a gazillion kids were boiling around, watched over by plenty
of summer hires, plus a couple of full-time personnel who probably did
have child-care licenses. These two, a man and a woman, were wearing
sweatshirts that read WE LUV HAPPY KIDS. Dead ahead was the long daycare
building called Howie’s Howdy House.
I saw Mr. Easterbrook, too. He was sitting on a bench beneath a Joyland
umbrella, dressed in his mortician’s suit and eating his lunch with
chopsticks. He didn’t see me at first; he was looking at a crocodile line of
children being led toward the Howdy House by a couple of greenies. The
kiddies could be parked there (I found this out later) for a maximum of two
hours while the parents either took their older kids on the bigger rides or
had lunch at Rock Lobster, the park’s class-A restaurant.
I also found out later that the eligibility ages for Howdy House ran from
three to six. Many of the children now approaching looked pretty mellow,
probably because they were daycare vets from families where both parents
worked. Others weren’t taking it so well. Maybe they’d managed to keep a
stiff upper lip at first, hearing mommy and daddy say they’d all be back
together in just an hour or two (as if a four-year-old has any real concept of
what an hour is), but now they were on their own, in a noisy and confusing
place filled with strangers and mommy and daddy nowhere in sight. Some
of those were crying. Buried in the Howie costume, looking out through the
screen mesh that served as eyeholes and already sweating like a pig, I
thought I was witnessing an act of uniquely American child abuse. Why
would you bring your kid—your toddler, for Christ’s sake—to the jangling
sprawl of an amusement park only to fob him or her off on a crew of
strange babysitters, even for a little while?
The greenies in charge could see the tears spreading (toddler-angst is just
another childhood disease, really, like measles), but their faces said they had

no idea what to do about it. Why would they? It was Day One, and they had
been thrown into the mix with as little preparation as I’d had when Lane
Hardy walked away and left me in charge of a gigantic Ferris wheel. But at
least kids under eight can’t get on the Spin without an adult, I thought.
These little buggers are pretty much on their own.
I didn’t know what to do either, but felt I had to try something. I walked
toward the line of kids with my front paws up and wagging my tail like mad
(I couldn’t see it, but I could feel it). And just as the first two or three saw
me and pointed me out, inspiration struck. It was the music. I stopped at the
intersection of Jellybean Road and Candy Cane Avenue, which happened to
be directly beneath two of the blaring speakers. Standing almost seven feet
from paws to furry cocked ears, I’m sure I was quite a presence. I bowed to
the kids, who were now all staring with open mouths and wide eyes. As
they watched, I began to do the Hokey Pokey.
Sorrow and terror over lost parents were forgotten, at least for the time
being. They laughed, some with tears still gleaming on their cheeks. They
didn’t quite dare approach, not while I was doing my clumsy little dance,
but they crowded forward. There was wonder but no fear. They all knew
Howie; those from the Carolinas had seen his afternoon TV show, and even
those from far-flung exotic locales like St. Louis and Omaha had seen
brochures and advertisements on the Saturday morning cartoons. They
understood that although Howie was a big dog, he was a good dog. He’d
never bite. He was their friend.
I put my left foot in; I put my left foot out; I put my left foot in and I
shook it all about. I did the Hokey Pokey and I turned myself around,
because—as almost every little kid in America knows—that’s what it’s all
about. I forgot about being hot and uncomfortable. I didn’t think about how
my undershorts were sticking in the crack of my ass. Later I would have a
bitch of a heat-headache, but just then I felt okay—really good, in fact. And
you know what? Wendy Keegan never once crossed my mind.
When the music changed to the Sesame Street theme, I quit dancing,
dropped to one padded knee, and held out my arms like Al Jolson.
“HOWWWIE!” a little girl screamed, and all these years later I can still
hear the perfect note of rapture in her voice. She ran forward, pink skirt
swirling around her chubby knees. That did it. The orderly crocodile line
dissolved.

The kids will know what to do, the old-timer had said, and how right he
was. First they swarmed me, then they knocked me over, then they gathered
around me, hugging and laughing. The little girl in the pink skirt kissed my
snout repeatedly, shouting “Howie, Howie, Howie!” as she did it.
Some of the parents who had ventured into the Wiggle-Waggle to snap
pictures were approaching, equally fascinated. I paddled my paws to get
some space, rolled over, and got up before they could crush me with their
love. Although just then I was loving them right back. For such a hot day, it
was pretty cool.
I didn’t notice Mr. Easterbrook reach into the jacket of his mortician’s
suit, bring out a walkie-talkie, and speak into it briefly. All I knew was that
the Sesame Street music suddenly cut out and “The Hokey Pokey” started
up again. I put my right paw in and my right paw out. The kids got into it
right away, their eyes never leaving me, not wanting to miss the next move
and be left behind.
Pretty soon we were all doing the Hokey Pokey at the intersection of
Jellybean and Candy Cane. The greenie minders joined in. I’ll be
goddamned if some of the parents didn’t join in as well. I even put my long
tail in and pulled my long tail out. Laughing madly, the kids turned around
and did the same, only with invisible tails.
As the song wound down, I made an extravagant “Come on, kids!”
gesture with my left paw (inadvertently yanking my tail up so stringently I
almost tore the troublesome fucker off) and led them toward Howdy House.
They followed as willingly as the children of Hamelin followed the pied
piper, and not one of them was crying. That actually wasn’t the best day of
my brilliant (if I do say so myself, and I do) career as Howie the Happy
Hound, but it was right up there.
***
When they were safely inside Howdy House (the little girl in the pink skirt
stood in the door long enough to wave me a bye-bye), I turned around and
the world seemed to keep right on turning when I stopped. Sweat sheeted
into my eyes, doubling Wiggle-Waggle Village and everything in it. I
wavered on my back paws. The entire performance, from my first Hokey
Pokey moves to the little girl waving bye-bye, had only taken seven

minutes—nine, tops—but I was totally fried. I started trudging back the
way I had come, not sure what to do next.
“Son,” a voice said. “Over here.”
It was Mr. Easterbrook. He was holding open a door in the back of the
Wishing Well Snack Bar. It might have been the door I’d come through,
probably was, but then I’d been too anxious and excited to notice.
He ushered me inside, closed the door behind us, and pulled down the
zipper at the back of the costume. Howie’s surprisingly heavy head fell off
my own, and my damp skin drank up the blessed air conditioning. My skin,
still winter-white (it wouldn’t stay that way for long), rashed out in
goosebumps. I took big deep breaths.
“Sit down on the steps,” he said. “I’ll call for a ride in a minute, but right
now you need to get your wind back. The first few turns as Howie are
always difficult, and the performance you just gave was particularly
strenuous. It was also extraordinary.”
“Thanks.” It was all I could manage. Until I was back inside the cool
quiet, I hadn’t realized how close to my limit I was. “Thanks very much.”
“Head down if you feel faint.”
“Not faint. Got a headache, though.” I snaked one arm out of Howie and
wiped my face, which was dripping. “You kinda rescued me.”
“Maximum time wearing Howie on a hot day—I’m talking July and
August, when the humidity is high and the temperature goes into the
nineties—is fifteen minutes,” Mr. Easterbrook said. “If someone tries to tell
you different, send them directly to me. And you’ll be well advised to
swallow a couple of salt pills. We want you summer kids to work hard, but
we don’t want to kill you.”
He took out his walkie-talkie and spoke briefly and quietly. Five minutes
later, the old-timer showed up again in his cart, with a couple of Anacin and
a bottle of blessedly cold water. In the meantime Mr. Easterbrook sat next to
me, lowering himself to the top step leading down to the Boulevard with a
glassy care that made me a trifle nervous.
“What’s your name, son?”
“Devin Jones, sir.”
“Do they call you Jonesy?” He didn’t wait for me to reply. “Of course
they do, it’s the carny way, and that’s all Joyland is, really—a thinly
disguised carny. Places like this won’t last much longer. The Disneys and

Knott’s Berry Farms are going to rule the amusement world, except maybe
down here in the mid-south. Tell me, aside from the heat, how did you
enjoy your first turn wearing the fur?”
“I liked it.”
“Because?”
“Because some of them were crying, I guess.”
He smiled. “And?”
“Pretty soon all of them would have been crying, but I stopped it.”
“Yes. You did the Hokey Pokey. A splinter of genius. How did you know
it would work?”
“I didn’t.” But actually…I did. On some level, I did.
He smiled. “At Joyland, we throw our new hires—our greenies—into the
mix without much in the way of preparation, because in some people, some
gifted people, it encourages a sort of spontaneity that’s very special and
valuable, both to us and to our patrons. Did you learn something about
yourself just now?”
“Jeez, I don’t know. Maybe. But…can I say something, sir?”
“Feel free.”
I hesitated, then decided to take him at his word. “Sending those kids to
daycare—daycare at an amusement park—that seems, I don’t know, kind of
mean.” I added hastily, “Although the Wiggle-Waggle seems really good for
little people. Really fun.”
“You have to understand something, son. At Joyland, we’re in the black
this much.” He held a thumb and forefinger only a smidge apart. “When
parents know there’s care for their wee ones—even for just a couple of
hours—they bring the whole family. If they needed to hire a babysitter at
home, they might not come at all, and our profit margin would disappear. I
take your point, but I have a point, too. Most of those little ones have never
been to a place like this before. They’ll remember it the way they’ll
remember their first movie, or their first day at school. Because of you, they
won’t remember crying because they were abandoned by their parents for a
little while; they’ll remember doing the Hokey Pokey with Howie the
Happy Hound, who appeared like magic.”
“I guess.”
He reached out, not for me but for Howie. He stroked the fur with his
gnarled fingers as he spoke. “The Disney parks are scripted, and I hate that.

Hate it. I think what they’re doing down there in Orlando is fun-pimping.
I’m a seat-of-the-pants fan, and sometimes I see someone who’s a seat-ofthe-pants genius. That could be you. Too early to tell for sure, but yes, it
could be you.” He put his hands to the small of his back and stretched. I
heard an alarmingly loud series of cracking noises. “Might I share your cart
back to the boneyard? I think I’ve had enough sun for one day.”
“My cart is your cart.” Since Joyland was his park, that was literally true.
“I think you’ll wear the fur a lot this summer. Most of the young people
see that as a burden, or even a punishment. I don’t believe that you will. Am
I wrong?”
He wasn’t. I’ve done a lot of jobs in the years since then, and my current
editorial gig—probably my last gig before retirement seizes me in its claws
—is terrific, but I never felt so weirdly happy, so absolutely in-the-rightplace, as I did when I was twenty-one, wearing the fur and doing the Hokey
Pokey on a hot day in June.
Seat of the pants, baby.
***
I stayed friends with Tom and Erin after that summer, and I’m friends with
Erin still, although these days we’re mostly email and Facebook buddies
who sometimes get together for lunch in New York. I’ve never met her
second husband. She says he’s a nice guy, and I believe her. Why would I
not? After being married to Mr. Original Nice Guy for eighteen years and
having that yardstick to measure by, she’d hardly pick a loser.
In the spring of 1992, Tom was diagnosed with a brain tumor. He was
dead six months later. When he called and told me he was sick, his usual
ratchetjaw delivery slowed by the wrecking ball swinging back and forth in
his head, I was stunned and depressed, the way almost anyone would be, I
suppose, when he hears that a guy who should be in the very prime of life is
instead approaching the finish line. You want to ask how a thing like that
can be fair. Weren’t there supposed to be a few more good things for Tom,
like a couple of grandchildren and maybe that long-dreamed-of vacation in
Maui?
During my time at Joyland, I once heard Pop Allen talk about burning the
lot. In the Talk, that means to blatantly cheat the rubes at what’s supposed to

be a straight game. I thought of that for the first time in years when Tom
called with his bad news.
But the mind defends itself as long as it can. After the first shock of such
news dissipates, maybe you think, Okay, it’s bad, I get that, but it’s not the
final word; there still might be a chance. Even if ninety-five percent of the
people who draw this particular card go down, there’s still that lucky five
percent. Also, doctors misdiagnose shit all the time. Barring those things,
there’s the occasional miracle.
You think that, and then you get the follow-up call. The woman who
makes the follow-up call was once a beautiful young girl who ran around
Joyland in a flippy green dress and a silly Sherwood Forest hat, toting a big
old Speed Graphic camera, and the conies she braced hardly ever said no.
How could they say no to that blazing red hair and eager smile? How could
anyone say no to Erin Cook?
Well, God said no. God burned Tom Kennedy’s lot, and He burned hers
in the process. When I picked up the phone at five-thirty on a gorgeous
October afternoon in Westchester, that girl had become a woman whose
voice, blurry with the tears, sounded old and tired to death. “Tom died at
two this afternoon. It was very peaceful. He couldn’t talk, but he was aware.
He…Dev, he squeezed my hand when I said goodbye.”
I said, “I wish I could have been there.”
“Yes.” Her voice wavered, then firmed. “Yes, that would have been
good.”
You think Okay, I get it, I’m prepared for the worst, but you hold out that
small hope, see, and that’s what fucks you up. That’s what kills you.
I talked to her, I told her how much I loved her and how much I had
loved Tom, I told her yes, I’d be at the funeral, and if there was anything I
could do before then, she should call. Day or night. Then I hung up the
phone and lowered my head and bawled my goddam eyes out.
The end of my first love doesn’t measure up to the death of one old
friend and the bereavement of the other, but it followed the same pattern.
Exactly the same. And if it seemed like the end of the world to me—first
causing those suicidal ideations (silly and halfhearted though they may have
been) and then a seismic shift in the previously unquestioned course of my
life—you have to understand I had no scale by which to judge it. That’s
called being young.

***
As June wore on, I started to understand that my relationship with Wendy
was as sick as William Blake’s rose, but I refused to believe it was mortally
sick, even when the signs became increasingly clear.
Letters, for instance. During my first week at Mrs. Shoplaw’s, I wrote
Wendy four long ones, even though I was run off my feet at Joyland and
came drag-assing into my second-floor room each night with my head full
of new information and new experiences, feeling like a kid dropped into a
challenging college course (call it The Advanced Physics of Fun) halfway
through the semester. What I got in return was a single postcard with
Boston Common on the front and a very peculiar collaborative message on
the back. At the top, written in a hand I didn’t recognize, was this: Wenny
writes the card while Rennie drives the bus! Below, in a hand I did
recognize, Wendy—or Wenny, if you like; I hated it, myself—had written
breezily: Whee! We is salesgirls off on a venture to Cape Cod! It’s a
party! Hoopsie muzik! Don’t worry I held the wheel while Ren wrote
her part. Hope your good. W.
Hoopsie muzik? Hope your good? No love, no do you miss me, just hope
your good? And although, judging by the bumps and jags and inkblots, the
card had been written while on the move in Renee’s car (Wendy didn’t have
one), they both sounded either stoned or drunk on their asses. The following
week I sent four more letters, plus an Erin-photo of me wearing the fur.
From Wendy, nothing in reply.
You start to worry, then you start to get it, then you know. Maybe you
don’t want to, maybe you think that lovers as well as doctors misdiagnose
shit all the time, but in your heart you know.
Twice I tried calling her. The same grumpy girl answered both times. I
imagined her wearing harlequin glasses, an ankle-length granny dress, and
no lipstick. Not there, she said the first time. Out with Ren. Not there and
not likely to be there in the future, Grumpy Girl said the second time.
Moved.
“Moved where?” I asked, alarmed. This was in the parlor of Maison
Shoplaw, where there was a long-distance honor sheet beside the phone. My
fingers were holding the big old-fashioned receiver so tightly they had gone
numb. Wendy was going to college on a patchwork magic carpet of

scholarships, loans, and work-study employment, the same as me. She
couldn’t afford a place on her own. Not without help, she couldn’t.
“I don’t know and don’t care,” Grumpy Girl said. “I got tired of all the
drinking and hen-parties at two in the morning. Some of us actually like to
get a little sleep. Strange but true.”
My heart was beating so hard I could feel it pulsing in my temples. “Did
Renee go with her?”
“No, they had a fight. Over that guy. The one who helped Wennie move
out.” She said Wennie with a kind of bright contempt that made me sick to
my stomach. Surely it wasn’t the guy part that made me feel that way; I was
her guy. If some friend, someone she’d met at work, had pitched in and
helped her move her stuff, what was that to me? Of course she could have
guy friends. I had made at least one girl friend, hadn’t I?
“Is Renee there? Can I talk to her?”
“No, she had a date.” Some penny must have finally dropped, because all
at once Grumpy Girl got interested in the conversation. “Heyyy, is your
name Devin?”
I hung up. It wasn’t something I planned, just something I did. I told
myself I hadn’t heard Grumpy Girl all of a sudden change into Amused
Grumpy Girl, as if there was some sort of joke going on and I was part of it.
Maybe even the butt of it. As I believe I have said, the mind defends itself
as long as it can.
***
Three days later, I got the only letter I received from Wendy Keegan that
summer. The last letter. It was written on her stationery, which was deckleedged and featured happy kittens playing with balls of yarn. It was the
stationery of a fifth-grade girl, although that thought didn’t occur to me
until much later. There were three breathless pages, mostly saying how
sorry she was, and how she had fought against the attraction but it was just
hopeless, and she knew I would be hurt so I probably shouldn’t call her or
try to see her for a while, and she hoped we could be good friends after the
initial shock wore off, and he was a nice guy, he went to Dartmouth, he
played lacrosse, she knew I’d like him, maybe she could introduce him to
me when the fall semester started, etc. etc. fucking etc.

That night I plopped myself down on the sand fifty yards or so from Mrs.
Shoplaw’s Beachside Accommodations, planning to get drunk. At least, I
thought, it wouldn’t be expensive. In those days, a sixpack was all it took to
get me pie-eyed. At some point Tom and Erin joined me, and we watched
the waves roll in together: the three Joyland Musketeers.
“What’s wrong?” Erin asked.
I shrugged, the way you do when it’s small shit but annoying shit, all the
same. “Girlfriend broke up with me. Sent me a Dear John letter.”
“Which in your case,” Tom said, “would be a Dear Dev letter.”
“Show a little compassion,” Erin told him. “He’s sad and hurt and trying
not to show it. Are you too much of a dumbass to see that?”
“No,” Tom said. He put his arm around my shoulders and briefly hugged
me against him. “I’m sorry for your pain, pal. I feel it coming off you like a
cold wind from Canada or maybe even the Arctic. Can I have one of your
beers?”
“Sure.”
We sat there for quite a while, and under Erin’s gentle questioning, I
spilled some of it, but not all of it. I was sad. I was hurt. But there was a lot
more, and I didn’t want them to see it. This was partly because I’d been
raised by my parents to believe barfing your feelings on other people was
the height of impoliteness, but mostly because I was dismayed by the depth
and strength of my jealousy. I didn’t want them to even guess at that lively
worm (he was from Dartmouth, oh God yes, he’d probably pledged the best
frat and drove a Mustang his folks had given him as a high school
graduation present). Nor was jealousy the worst of it. The worst was the
horrifying realization—that night it was just starting to sink in—that I had
been really and truly rejected for the first time in my life. She was through
with me, but I couldn’t imagine being through with her.
Erin also took a beer, and raised the can. “Let’s toast the next one to
come along. I don’t know who she’ll be, Dev, only that meeting you will be
her lucky day.”
“Hear-hear!” Tom said, raising his own can. And, because he was Tom,
he felt compelled to add “Where-where!” and “There-there!”
I don’t think either of them realized, then or all the rest of the summer,
how fundamentally the ground under my feet had shifted. How lost I felt. I

didn’t want them to know. It was more than embarrassing; it seemed
shameful. So I made myself smile, raised my own can of suds, and drank.
At least with them to help me drink the six, I didn’t have to wake up the
next morning hungover as well as heartbroke. That was good, because when
we got to Joyland that morning, I found out from Pop Allen that I was down
to wear the fur that afternoon on Joyland Avenue—three fifteen-minute
shifts at three, four, and five. I bitched for form’s sake (everybody was
supposed to bitch about wearing the fur) but I was glad. I liked being
mobbed by the kids, and for the next few weeks, playing Howie also had a
bitter sort of amusement value. As I made my tail-wagging way down
Joyland Avenue, followed by crowds of laughing children, I thought it was
no wonder Wendy had dumped me. Her new boyfriend went to Dartmouth
and played lacrosse. Her old one was spending the summer in a third-tier
amusement park. Where he played a dog.
***
Joyland summer.
I ride-jockeyed. I flashed the shys in the mornings—meaning I restocked
them with prizes—and ran some of them in the afternoons. I untangled
Devil Wagons by the dozen, learned how to fry dough without burning my
fingers off, and worked on my pitch for the Carolina Spin. I danced and
sang with the other greenies on the Wiggle-Waggle Village’s Story Stage.
Several times Fred Dean sent me to scratch the midway, a true sign of trust
because it meant picking up the noon or five PM take from the various
concessions. I made runs to Heaven’s Bay or Wilmington when some piece
of machinery broke down and stayed late on Wednesday nights—usually
along with Tom, George Preston, and Ronnie Houston—to lube the Whirly
Cups and a vicious, neck-snapping ride called the Zipper. Both of those
babies drank oil the way camels drink water when they get to the next oasis.
And, of course, I wore the fur.
In spite of all this, I wasn’t sleeping for shit. Sometimes I’d lie on my
bed, clap my elderly, taped-up headphones over my ears, and listen to my
Doors records. (I was particularly partial to such cheerful tunes as “Cars
Hiss By My Window,” “Riders on the Storm,” and—of course—“The
End.”) When Jim Morrison’s voice and Ray Manzarek’s mystic, chiming

organ weren’t enough to sedate me, I’d creep down the outside staircase and
walk on the beach. Once or twice I slept on the beach. At least there were
no bad dreams when I did manage to get under for a little while. I don’t
remember dreaming that summer at all.
I could see bags under my eyes when I shaved in the morning, and
sometimes I’d feel lightheaded after a particularly strenuous turn as Howie
(birthday parties in the overheated bedlam of Howdy House were the
worst), but that was normal; Mr. Easterbrook had told me so. A little rest in
the boneyard always put me right again. On the whole, I thought I was
representing, as they say nowadays. I learned different on the first Monday
in July, two days before the Glorious Fourth.
***

My team—Beagle—reported to Pop Allen’s shy first thing, as always, and
he gave us our assignments as he laid out the popguns. Usually our early
chores involved toting boxes of prizes (MADE IN TAIWAN stamped on most of
them) and flashing shys until Early Gate, which was what we called
opening. That morning, however, Pop told me that Lane Hardy wanted me.
This was a surprise; Lane rarely showed his face outside the boneyard until
twenty minutes or so before Early Gate. I started that way, but Pop yelled at
me.
“Nah, nah, he’s at the simp-hoister.” This was a derogatory term for the
Ferris wheel he would have known better than to use if Lane had actually
been there. “Beat feet, Jonesy. Got a lot to do today.”
I beat feet, but saw no one at the Spin, which stood tall, still, and silent,
waiting for the day’s first customers.
“Over here,” a woman called. I turned to my left and saw Rozzie Gold
standing outside her star-studded fortunetelling shy, all kitted out in one of
her gauzy Madame Fortuna rigs. On her head was an electric blue scarf, the
knotted tail of which fell almost to the small of her back. Lane was standing
beside her in his usual rig: faded straight-leg jeans and a skin-tight strappy
tee-shirt perfect for showing off his fully loaded guns. His derby was tilted
at the proper wiseguy angle. Looking at him, you’d believe he didn’t have a
brain in his head, but he had plenty.
Both dressed for show, and both wearing bad-news faces. I ran quickly
through the last few days, trying to think of anything I’d done that might
account for those faces. It crossed my mind that Lane might have orders to
lay me off…or even fire me. But at the height of the summer? And
wouldn’t that be Fred Dean’s or Brenda Rafferty’s job? Also, why was
Rozzie here?
“Who died, guys?” I asked.
“Just as long as it isn’t you,” Rozzie said. She was getting into character
for the day and sounded funny: half Brooklyn and half Carpathian
Mountains.
“Huh?”
“Walk with us, Jonesy,” Lane said, and immediately started down the
midway, which was largely deserted ninety minutes before Early Gate; no

one around but a few members of the janitorial staff—gazoonies, in the
Talk, and probably not a green card among them—sweeping up around the
concessions: work that should have been done the night before. Rozzie
made room for me between them when I caught up. I felt like a crook being
escorted to the pokey by a couple of cops.
“What’s this about?”
“You’ll see,” Rozzie/Fortuna said ominously, and pretty soon I did. Next
to Horror House—the two connected, actually—was Mysterio’s Mirror
Mansion. Next to the agent’s booth was a regular mirror with a sign over it
reading SO YOU WON’T FORGET HOW YOU REALLY LOOK. Lane took me by one
arm, Rozzie by the other. Now I really did feel like a perp being brought in
for booking. They placed me in front of the mirror.
“What do you see?” Lane asked.
“Me,” I said, and then, because that didn’t seem to be the answer they
wanted: “Me needing a haircut.”
“Look at your clothes, silly boy,” Rozzie said, pronouncing the last two
words seely poy.
I looked. Above my yellow workboots I saw jeans (with the
recommended brand of rawhide gloves sticking out of the back pocket), and
above my jeans was a blue chambray workshirt, faded but reasonably clean.
On my head was an admirably battered Howie dogtop, the finishing touch
that means so much.
“What about them?” I said. I was starting to get a little mad.
“Kinda hangin on ya, aren’t they?” Lane said. “Didn’t used to. How
much weight you lost?”
“Jesus, I don’t know. Maybe we ought to go see Fat Wally.” Fat Wally
ran the guess-your-weight joint.
“Is not funny,” Fortuna said. “You can’t wear that damn dog costume half
the day under the hot summer sun, then swallow two more salt pills and call
it a meal. Mourn your lost love all you want, but eat while you do it. Eat,
dammit!”
“Who’s been talking to you? Tom?” No, it wouldn’t have been him.
“Erin. She had no business—”
“No one has been talking to me,” Rozzie said. She drew herself up
impressively. “I have the sight.”

“I don’t know about the sight, but you’ve got one hell of a nerve.”
All at once she reverted to Rozzie. “I’m not talking about psychic sight,
kiddo, I’m talking about ordinary woman-sight. You think I don’t know a
lovestruck Romeo when I see one? After all the years I’ve been gigging
palms and peeping the crystal? Hah!” She stepped forward, her
considerable breastworks leading the way. “I don’t care about your love
life; I just don’t want to see you taken to the hospital on July Fourth—when
it’s supposed to hit ninety-five in the shade, by the way—with heat
prostration or something worse.”
Lane took off his derby, peered into it, and reset it on his head cocked the
other way. “What she won’t come right out and say because she has to
protect her famous crusty reputation is we all like you, kid. You learn fast,
you do what’s asked of you, you’re honest, you don’t make no trouble, and
the kids love you like mad when you’re wearing the fur. But you’d have to
be blind not to see something’s wrong with you. Rozzie thinks girl trouble.
Maybe she’s right. Maybe she ain’t.”
Rozzie gave him a haughty dare-you-doubt-me stare.
“Maybe your parents are getting a divorce. Mine did, and it damn near
killed me. Maybe your big brother got arrested for selling dope—”
“My mother’s dead and I’m an only child,” I said sulkily.
“I don’t care what you are in the straight world,” he said. “This is
Joyland. The show. And you’re one of us. Which means we got a right to
care about you, whether you like it or not. So get something to eat.”
“Get a lot to eat,” Rozzie said. “Now, noon, all day. Every day. And try to
eat something besides fried chicken where, I tell you what, there’s a heart
attack in every drumstick. Go in Rock Lobster and tell them you want a
take-out of fish and salad. Tell them to make it a double. Get your weight
up so you don’t look like the Human Skeleton in a ten-in-one.” She turned
her gaze on Lane. “It’s a girl, of course it is. Anybody can see that.”
“Whatever it is, stop fucking pining,” Lane said.
“Such language to use around a lady,” Rozzie said. She was sounding
like Fortuna again. Soon she’d come out with Ziss is vat za spirits vant, or
something equivalent.
“Ah, blow it out,” Lane said, and walked back toward the Spin.
When he was gone, I looked at Rozzie. She really wasn’t much in the
mother-figure department, but right then she was what I had. “Roz, does

everyone know?”
She shook her head. “Nah. To most of the old guys, you’re just another
greenie jack-of-all-trades…although not as green as you were three weeks
ago. But many people here like you, and they see something is wrong. Your
friend Erin, for one. Your friend Tom for another.” She said friend like it
rhymed with rent. “I am another friend, and as a friend I tell you that you
can’t fix your heart. Only time can do that, but you can fix your body. Eat!”
“You sound like a Jewish mother joke,” I said.
“I am a Jewish mother, and believe me, it’s no joke.”
“I’m the joke,” I said. “I think about her all the time.”
“That you can’t help, at least for now. But you must turn your back on
the other thoughts that sometimes come to you.”
I think my mouth dropped open. I’m not sure. I know I stared. People
who’ve been in the business as long as Rozzie Gold had been back then—
they are called mitts in the Talk, for their palmistry skills—have their ways
of picking your brains so that what they say sounds like the result of
telepathy, but usually it’s just close observation.
Not always, though.
“I don’t understand.”
“Give those morbid records a rest, do you understand that?” She looked
grimly into my face, then laughed at the surprise she saw there. “Rozzie
Gold may be just a Jewish mother and grandmother, but Madame Fortuna
sees much.”
So did my landlady, and I found out later—after seeing Rozzie and Mrs.
Shoplaw having lunch together in Heaven’s Bay on one of Madame
Fortuna’s rare days off—that they were close friends who had known each
other for years. Mrs. Shoplaw dusted my room and vacuumed the floor
once a week; she would have seen my records. As for the rest—those
famous suicidal ideations that sometimes came to me—might not a woman
who had spent most of her life observing human nature and watching for
psychological clues (called tells both in the Talk and big-league poker)
guess that a sensitive young man, freshly dumped, might entertain thoughts
of pills and ropes and riptide undertows?
“I’ll eat,” I promised. I had a thousand things to do before Early Gate, but
mostly I was just anxious to be away from her before she said something

totally outrageous like Her name is Vendy, and you still think of her ven you
messturbate.
“Also, drink big glass of milk before you go to bed.” She raised an
admonitory finger. “No coffee; milk. Vill help you sleep.”
“Worth a try,” I said.
She went back to Roz again. “The day we met, you asked if I saw a
beautiful woman with dark hair in your future. Do you remember that?”
“Yes.”
“What did I say?”
“That she was in my past.”
Rozzie gave a single nod, hard and imperious. “So she is. And when you
want to call her and beg for a second chance—you will, you will—show a
little spine. Have a little self-respect. Also remember that the long-distance
is expensive.”
Tell me something I don’t know, I thought. “Listen, I really have to get
going, Roz. Lots to do.”
“Yes, a busy day for all of us. But before you go, Jonesy—have you met
the boy yet? The one with the dog? Or the girl who wears the red hat and
carries the doll? I told you about them, too, when we met.”
“Roz, I’ve met a billion kids in the last—”
“You haven’t, then. Okay. You will.” She stuck out her lower lip and
blew, stirring the fringe of hair that stuck out from beneath her scarf. Then
she seized my wrist. “I see danger for you, Jonesy. Sorrow and danger.”
I thought for a moment she was going to whisper something like Beware
the dark stranger! He rides a unicycle! Instead, she let go of me and
pointed at Horror House. “Which team turns that unpleasant hole? Not
yours, is it?”
“No, Team Doberman.” The Dobies were also responsible for the
adjacent attractions: Mysterio’s Mirror Mansion and the Wax Museum.
Taken together, these three were Joyland’s halfhearted nod to the old carny
spook-shows.
“Good. Stay out of it. It’s haunted, and a boy with bad thoughts needs to
be visiting a haunted house like he needs arsenic in his mouthwash.
Kapish?”
“Yeah.” I looked at my watch.

She got the point and stepped back. “Watch for those kids. And watch
your step, boychick. There’s a shadow over you.”
***
Lane and Rozzie gave me a pretty good jolt, I’ll admit it. I didn’t stop
listening to my Doors records—not immediately, at least—but I made
myself eat more, and started sucking down three milkshakes a day. I could
feel fresh energy pouring into my body as if someone had turned on a tap,
and I was very grateful for that on the afternoon of July Fourth. Joyland was
tipsed and I was down to wear the fur ten times, an all-time record.
Fred Dean himself came down to give me the schedule, and to hand me a
note from old Mr. Easterbrook. If it becomes too much, stop at once and tell
your team leader to find a sub.
“I’ll be fine,” I said.
“Maybe, but make sure Pop sees this memo.”
“Okay.”
“Brad likes you, Jonesy. That’s rare. He hardly ever notices the greenies
unless he sees one of them screw up.”
I liked him, too, but didn’t say so to Fred. I thought it would have
sounded suck-assy.
***
All my July Fourth shifts were tenners, not bad even though most tenminute shifts actually turned out to be fifteenies, but the heat was crushing.
Ninety-five in the shade, Rozzie had said, but by noon that day it was a
hundred and two by the thermometer that hung outside the Park Ops trailer.
Luckily for me, Dottie Lassen had repaired the other XL Howie suit and I
could swap between the two. While I was wearing one, Dottie would have
the other turned as inside out as it would go and hung in front of three fans,
drying the sweat-soaked interior.
At least I could remove the fur by myself; by then I’d discovered the
secret. Howie’s right paw was actually a glove, and when you knew the
trick, pulling down the zipper to the neck of the costume was a cinch. Once
you had the head off, the rest was cake. This was good, because I could

change by myself behind a pull-curtain. No more displaying my sweaty,
semi-transparent undershorts to the costume ladies.
As the bunting-draped afternoon of July Fourth wore on, I was excused
from all other duties. I’d do my capering, then retreat to Joyland Under and
collapse on the ratty old couch in the boneyard for a while, soaking up the
air conditioning. When I felt revived, I’d use the alleys to get to the
costume shop and swap one fur for the other. Between shifts I guzzled pints
of water and quarts of unsweetened iced tea. You won’t believe I was
having fun, but I was. Even the brats were loving me that day.
So: quarter to four in the afternoon. I’m jiving down Joyland Avenue—
our midway—while the overhead speakers blast out Daddy Dewdrop’s
“Chick-A-Boom, Chick-A-Boom, Don’tcha Just Love It.” I’m giving out
hugs to the kiddies and Awesome August coupons to the adults, because
Joyland’s business always dropped off as the summer wound down. I’m
posing for pictures (some taken by Hollywood Girls, most by hordes of
sweat-soaked, sunburned Parent Paparazzi), and trailing adoring kids after
me in cometary splendor. I’m also looking for the nearest door to Joyland
Under, because I’m pretty well done up. I have just one more turn as Howie
scheduled today, because Howie the Happy Hound never shows his blue
eyes and cocked ears after sundown. I don’t know why; it was just a show
tradition.
Did I notice the little girl in the red hat before she fell down on the
baking pavement of Joyland Avenue, writhing and jerking? I think so but
can’t say for sure, because passing time adds false memories and modifies
real ones. I surely wouldn’t have noticed the Pup-A-Licious she was waving
around, or her bright red Howie dogtop; a kid at an amusement park with a
hotdog is hardly a unique sighting, and we must have sold a thousand red
Howie hats that day. If I did notice her, it was because of the doll she held
curled to her chest in the hand not holding her mustard-smeared Pup. It was
a big old Raggedy Ann. Madame Fortuna had suggested I be on the lookout
for a little girl with a doll only two days before, so maybe I did notice her.
Or maybe I was only thinking of getting off the midway before I fell down
in a faint. Anyway, her doll wasn’t the problem. The Pup-A-Licious she
was eating—that was the problem.
I only think I remember her running toward me (hey, they all did), but I
know what happened next, and why it happened. She had a bite of her Pup

in her mouth, and when she drew in breath to scream HOWWWIE, she
pulled it down her throat. Hot dogs: the perfect choking food. Luckily for
her, just enough of Rozzie Gold’s Fortuna bullshit had stuck in my head for
me to act quickly.
When the little girl’s knees buckled, her expression of happy ecstasy
turning first to surprise and then terror, I was already reaching behind me
and grabbing the zipper with my paw-glove. The Howie-head tumbled off
and lolled to the side, revealing the red face and sweat-soaked, clumpy hair
of Mr. Devin Jones. The little girl dropped her Raggedy Ann. Her hat fell
off. She began clawing at her neck.
“Hallie?” a woman cried. “Hallie, what’s wrong?”
Here’s more Luck in Action: I not only knew what was wrong, I knew
what to do. I’m not sure you’ll understand how fortunate that was. This is
1973 we’re talking about, remember, and Henry Heimlich would not
publish the essay that would give the Heimlich Maneuver its name for
another full year. Still, it’s always been the most commonsense way to deal
with choking, and we had learned it during our first and only orientation
session before beginning work in the UNH Commons. The teacher was a
tough old veteran of the restaurant wars who had lost his Nashua coffee
shop a year after a new McDonald’s went up nearby.
“Just remember, it won’t work if you don’t do it hard,” he told us. “Don’t
worry about breaking a rib if you see someone dying in front of you.”
I saw the little girl’s face turning purple and didn’t even think about her
ribs. I seized her in a vast, furry embrace, with my tail-pulling left paw
jammed against the bony arch in her midsection where her ribs came
together. I gave a single hard squeeze, and a yellow-smeared chunk of
hotdog almost two inches long came popping out of her mouth like a cork
from a champagne bottle. It flew nearly four feet. And no, I didn’t break
any of her ribs. Kids are flexible, God bless ’em.
I wasn’t aware that I and Hallie Stansfield—that was her name—were
hemmed in by a growing circle of adults. I certainly wasn’t aware that we
were being photographed dozens of times, including the shot by Erin Cook
that wound up in the Heaven’s Bay Weekly and several bigger papers,
including the Wilmington Star-News. I’ve still got a framed copy of that
photo in an attic box somewhere. It shows the little girl dangling in the arms
of this weird man/dog hybrid with one of its two heads lolling on its

shoulder. The girl is holding out her arms to her mother, perfectly caught by
Erin’s Speed Graphic just as Mom collapses to her knees in front of us.
All of that is a blur to me, but I remember the mother sweeping the little
girl up into her own arms and the father saying Kid, I think you saved her
life. And I remember—this is as clear as crystal—the girl looking at me
with her big blue eyes and saying, “Oh poor Howie, your head fell off.”
***
The all-time classic newspaper headline, as everyone knows, is MAN BITES
DOG. The Star-News couldn’t equal that, but the one over Erin’s picture
gave it a run for its money: DOG SAVES GIRL AT AMUSEMENT PARK.
Want to know my first snarky urge? To clip the article and send it to
Wendy Keegan. I might even have done it, had I not looked so much like a
drowned muskrat in Erin’s photo. I did send it to my father, who called to
say how proud of me he was. I could tell by the tremble in his voice that he
was close to tears.
“God put you in the right place at the right time, Dev,” he said.
Maybe God. Maybe Rozzie Gold, aka Madame Fortuna. Maybe a little of
both.
The next day I was summoned to Mr. Easterbrook’s office, a pinepaneled room raucous with old carny posters and photographs. I was
particularly taken by a photo that showed a straw-hatted agent with a
dapper mustache standing next to a test-your-strength shy. The sleeves of
his white shirt were rolled up, and he was leaning on a sledgehammer like it
was a cane: a total dude. At the top of the ding-post, next to the bell, was a
sign reading KISS HIM, LADY, HE’S A HE-MAN!
“Is that guy you?” I asked.
“It is indeed, although I only ran the ding-show for a season. It wasn’t to
my taste. Gaff jobs never have been. I like my games straight. Sit down,
Jonesy. You want a Coke or anything?”
“No, sir. I’m fine.” I was, in fact, sloshing with that morning’s milkshake.
“I’ll be perfectly blunt. You gave this show twenty thousand dollars’
worth of good publicity yesterday afternoon, and I still can’t afford to give
you a bonus. If you knew…but never mind.” He leaned forward. “What I

can do is owe you a favor. If you need one, ask. I’ll grant it if it’s in my
power. Will that do?”
“Sure.”
“Good. And would you be willing to make one more appearance—as
Howie—with the little girl? Her parents want to thank you in private, but a
public appearance would be an excellent thing for Joyland. Entirely your
call, of course.”
“When?”
“Saturday, after the noon parade. We’d put up a platform at the
intersection of Joyland and Hound Dog Way. Invite the press.”
“Happy to,” I said. I liked the idea of being in the newspapers again, I
will admit. It had been a tough summer on my ego and self-image, and I’d
take all the turnaround I could get.
He rose to his feet in his glassy, unsure way, and offered me his hand.
“Thank you again. On behalf of that little girl, but also on behalf of Joyland.
The accountants who run my damn life will be very happy about this.”
***
When I stepped out of the office building, which was located with the other
administrative buildings in what we called the backyard, my entire team
was there. Even Pop Allen had come. Erin, dressed for success in
Hollywood Girl green, stepped forward with a shiny metal crown of laurels
made from Campbell’s Soup cans. She dropped to one knee. “For you, my
hero.”
I would have guessed I was too sunburned to flush, but that turned out
not to be true. “Oh Jesus, get up.”
“Savior of little girls,” Tom Kennedy said. “Not to mention savior of our
place of employment getting its ass sued off and possibly having to shut its
doors.”
Erin bounced to her feet, stuck the ludicrous soup-can crown on my head,
then gave me a big old smackaroonie. Everyone on Team Beagle cheered.
“Okay,” Pop said when it died down. “We can all agree that you’re a
knight in shining ah-mah, Jonesy. You are also not the first guy to save a
rube from popping off on the midway. Could we maybe all get back to
work?”

I was good with that. Being famous was fun, but the don’t-get-a-swelledhead message of the tin laurels wasn’t lost on me.
***
I was wearing the fur that Saturday, on the makeshift platform at the center
of our midway. I was happy to take Hallie in my arms, and she was clearly
happy to be there. I’d guess there were roughly nine miles of film burned as
she proclaimed her love for her favorite doggy and kissed him again and
again for the cameras.
Erin was in the front row with her camera for a while, but the news
photogs were bigger and all male. Soon they shunted her away to a less
favorable position, and what did they all want? What Erin had already
gotten, a picture of me with my Howie-head off. That was one thing I
wouldn’t do, although I’m sure none of Fred, Lane, or Mr. Easterbrook
himself would have penalized me for it. I wouldn’t do it because it would
have flown in the face of park tradition: Howie never took off the fur in
public; to do so would have been like outing the Tooth Fairy. I’d done it
when Hallie Stansfield was choking, but that was the necessary exception. I
would not deliberately break the rule. So I guess I was carny after all
(although not carny-from-carny, never that).
Later, dressed in my own duds again, I met with Hallie and her parents in
the Joyland Customer Service Center. Close-up, I could see that Mom was
pregnant with number two, although she probably had three or four months
of eating pickles and ice cream still ahead of her. She hugged me and wept
some more. Hallie didn’t seem overly concerned. She sat in one of the
plastic chairs, swinging her feet and looking at old copies of Screen Time,
speaking the names of the various celebrities in the declamatory voice of a
court page announcing visiting royalty. I patted Mom’s back and said therethere. Dad didn’t cry, but the tears were standing in his eyes as he
approached me and held out a check in the amount of five hundred dollars,
made out to me. When I asked what he did for a living, he said he had
started his own contracting firm the year before—just now little, but gettin
on our feet pretty good, he told me. I considered that, factored in one kid
here plus another on the way, and tore up the check. I told him I couldn’t
take money for something that was just part of the job.

You have to remember I was only twenty-one.
***
There were no weekends per se for Joyland summer help; we got a day and
a half every nine, which meant they were never the same days. There was a
sign-up sheet, so Tom, Erin, and I almost always managed to get the same
downtime. That was why we were together on a Wednesday night in early
August, sitting around a campfire on the beach and having the sort of meal
that can only nourish the very young: beer, burgers, barbecue-flavored
potato chips, and coleslaw. For dessert we had s’mores that Erin cooked
over the fire, using a grill she borrowed from Pirate Pete’s Ice Cream
Waffle joint. It worked pretty well.
We could see other fires—great leaping bonfires as well as cooking fires
—all the way down the beach to the twinkling metropolis of Joyland. They
made a lovely chain of burning jewelry. Such fires are probably illegal in
the twenty-first century; the powers that be have a way of outlawing many
beautiful things made by ordinary people. I don’t know why that should be,
I only know it is.
While we ate, I told them about Madame Fortuna’s prediction that I
would meet a boy with a dog and a little girl in a red hat who carried a doll.
I finished by saying, “One down and one to go.”
“Wow,” Erin said. “Maybe she really is psychic. A lot of people have told
me that, but I didn’t really—”
“Like who?” Tom demanded.
“Well…Dottie Lassen in the costume shop, for one. Tina Ackerley, for
another. You know, the librarian Dev creeps down the hall to visit at night?”
I flipped her the bird. She giggled.
“Two is not a lot,” Tom said, speaking in his Hot Shit Professor voice.
“Lane Hardy makes three,” I said. “He says she’s told people stuff that
rocked them back on their heels.” In the interest of total disclosure, I felt
compelled to add: “Of course he also said that ninety percent of her
predictions are total crap.”
“Probably closer to ninety-five,” said the Hot Shit Professor. “Fortune
telling’s a con game, boys and girls. An Ikey Heyman, in the Talk. Take the
hat thing. Joyland dogtops only come in three colors—red, blue, and

yellow. Red’s by far the most popular. As for the doll, c’mon. How many
little kids bring some sort of toy to the amusement park? It’s a strange
place, and a favorite toy is a comfort thing. If she hadn’t choked on her
hotdog right in front of you, if she’d just given Howie a big old hug and
passed on, you would have seen some other little girl wearing a red dogtop
and carrying a doll and said, ‘Aha! Madame Fortuna really can see the
future, I must cross her palm with silver so she will tell me more.’ ”
“You’re such a cynic,” Erin said, giving him an elbow. “Rozzie Gold
would never try taking money from someone in the show.”
“She didn’t ask for money,” I said, but I thought what Tom said made a
lot of sense. It was true she had known (or seemed to know) that my darkhaired girl was in my past, not my future, but that could have been no more
than a guess based on percentages—or the look on my face when I asked.
“Course not,” Tom said, helping himself to another s’more. “She was just
practicing on you. Staying sharp. I bet she’s told a lot of other greenies
stuff, too.”
“Would you be one of them?” I asked.
“Well…no. But that means nothing.”
I looked at Erin, who shook her head.
“She also thinks Horror House is haunted,” I said.
“I’ve heard that one, too,” Erin said. “By a girl who got murdered in
there.”
“Bullshit!” Tom cried. “Next you’ll be telling me it was the Hook, and he
still lurks behind the Screaming Skull!”
“There really was a murder,” I said. “A girl named Linda Gray. She was
from Florence, South Carolina. There are pictures of her and the guy who
killed her at the shooting gallery and standing in line at the Whirly Cups.
No hook, but there was a tattoo of a bird on his hand. A hawk or an eagle.”
That silenced him, at least for the time being.
“Lane Hardy said that Roz only thinks Horror House is haunted, because
she won’t go inside and find out for sure. She won’t even go near it, if she
can help it. Lane thinks that’s ironic, because he says it really is haunted.”
Erin made her eyes big and round and scooted a little closer to the fire—
partly for effect, mostly I think so that Tom would put his arm around her.
“He’s seen—?”

“I don’t know. He said to ask Mrs. Shoplaw, and she gave me the whole
story.” I ran it down for them. It was a good story to tell at night, under the
stars, with the surf rolling and a beach-fire just starting to burn down to
coals. Even Tom seemed fascinated.
“Does she claim to have seen Linda Gray?” he asked when I finally ran
down. “La Shoplaw?”
I mentally replayed her story as told to me on the day I rented the room
on the second floor. “I don’t think so. She would have said.”
He nodded, satisfied. “A perfect lesson in how these things work.
Everyone knows someone who’s seen a UFO, and everyone knows someone
who’s seen a ghost. Hearsay evidence, inadmissible in court. Me, I’m a
Doubting Thomas. Geddit? Tom Kennedy, Doubting Thomas?”
Erin threw him a much sharper elbow. “We get it.” She looked
thoughtfully into the fire. “You know what? Summer’s two-thirds gone, and
I’ve never been in the Joyland scream-shy a single time, not even the baby
part up front. It’s a no-photo zone. Brenda Rafferty told us it’s because lots
of couples go in there to make out.” She peered at me. “What are you
grinning about?”
“Nothing.” I was thinking of La Shoplaw’s late husband going through
the place after Late Gate and picking up cast-off panties.
“Have either of you guys been in?”
We both shook our heads. “HH is Dobie Team’s job,” Tom said.
“Let’s do it tomorrow. All three of us in one car. Maybe we’ll see her.”
“Go to Joyland on our day off when we could spend it on the beach?”
Tom asked. “That’s masochism at its very finest.”
This time instead of giving him an elbow, she poked him in the ribs. I
didn’t know if they were sleeping together yet, but it seemed likely; the
relationship had certainly become very physical. “Poop on that! As
employees we get in free, and what does the ride take? Five minutes?”
“I think a little longer,” I said. “Nine or ten. Plus some time in the baby
part. Say fifteen minutes, all told.”
Tom put his chin on her head and looked at me through the fine cloud of
her hair. “Poop on that, she says. You can tell that here is a young woman
with a fine college education. Before she started hanging out with sorority
girls, she would have said shitsky and left it at that.”

“The day I start hanging out with that bunch of half-starved mix-n-match
sluts will be the day I crawl up my own ass and die!” For some reason, this
vulgarity pleased me to no end. Possibly because Wendy was a veteran mixn-matcher. “You, Thomas Patrick Kennedy, are just afraid we will see her,
and you’ll have to take back all those things you said about Madame
Fortuna and ghosts and UFOs and—”
Tom raised his hands. “I give up. We’ll get in the line with the rest of the
rubes—the conies, I mean—and take the Horror House tour. I only insist it
be in the afternoon. I need my beauty rest.”
“You certainly do,” I said.
“Coming from someone who looks like you, that’s pretty funny. Give me
a beer, Jonesy.”
I gave him a beer.
“Tell us how it went with the Stansfields,” Erin said. “Did they blubber
all over you and call you their hero?”
That was pretty close, but I didn’t want to say so. “The parents were
okay. The kid sat in the corner, reading Screen Time and saying she spied
Dean Martin with her little eye.”
“Forget the local color and cut to the chase,” Tom said. “Did you get any
money out of it?”
I was preoccupied with thoughts of how the little girl announcing the
celebrities with such reverence could have been in a flatline coma instead.
Or in a casket. Thus distracted, I answered honestly. “The guy offered me
five hundred dollars, but I wouldn’t take it.”
Tom goggled. “Say what?”
I looked down at the remains of the s’more I was holding. Marshmallow
was drooling onto my fingers, so I tossed it into the fire. I was full, anyway.
I was also embarrassed, and pissed off to be feeling that way. “The man’s
trying to get a little business up and running, and based on the way he
talked about it, it’s at the point where it could go either way. He’s also got a
wife and a kid and another kid coming soon. I didn’t think he could afford
to be giving money away.”
“He couldn’t? What about you?”
I blinked. “What about me?”
To this day I don’t know if Tom was genuinely angry or faking it. I think
he might have started out faking, then gathered steam as full understanding

of what I’d done struck him. I have no idea exactly what his home situation
was, but I know he was living from paycheck to paycheck, and had no car.
When he wanted to take Erin out, he borrowed mine…and was careful—
punctilious, I should say—about paying for the gas he used. Money
mattered to him. I never got the sense it completely owned him, but yes, it
mattered to him a great deal.
“You’re going to school on a wing and a prayer, same as Erin and me,
and working at Joyland isn’t going to land any of us in a limousine. What’s
wrong with you? Did your mother drop you on your head when you were a
baby?”
“Take it easy,” Erin said.
He paid no attention. “Do you want to spend the fall semester next year
getting up early so you can pull dirty breakfast dishes off a Commons
conveyor belt? You must, because five hundred a semester is about what it
pays at Rutgers. I know, because I checked before lucking into a tutoring
gig. You know how I made it through freshman year? Writing papers for
rich fratboys majoring in Advanced Beerology. If I’d been caught, I could
have been suspended for a semester or tossed completely. I’ll tell you what
your grand gesture amounted to: giving away twenty hours a week you
could have spent studying.” He heard himself ranting, stopped, and raised a
grin. “Or chatting up lissome females.”
“I’ll give you lissome,” Erin said, and pounced on him. They went rolling
across the sand, Erin tickling and Tom yelling (with a notable lack of
conviction) for her to get off. That was fine with me, because I did not care
to pursue the issues Tom had raised. I had already made up my mind about
some things, it seemed, and all that remained was for my conscious mind to
get the news.
***
The next day, at quarter past three, we were in line at Horror House. A kid
named Brady Waterman was agenting the shy. I remember him because he
was also good at playing Howie. (But not as good as I was, I feel compelled
to add…strictly in the cause of honesty.) Although quite stout at the
beginning of the summer, Brady was now slim and trim. As a diet program,
wearing the fur had Weight Watchers beat six ways to Tulsa.

“What are you guys doing here?” he asked. “Isn’t it your day off?”
“We had to see Joyland’s one and only dark ride,” Tom said, “and I’m
already feeling a satisfying sense of dramatic unity—Brad Waterman and
Horror House. It’s the perfect match.”
He scowled. “You’re all gonna try to cram into one car, aren’tcha?”
“We have to,” Erin told him. Then she leaned close to one of Brad’s
juggy ears and whispered, “It’s a Truth or Dare thing.”
As Brad considered this, he touched the tip of his tongue to the middle of
his upper lip. I could see him calculating the possibilities.
The guy behind us spoke up. “Kids, could you move the line along? I
understand there’s air conditioning inside, and I could use some.”
“Go on,” Brad told us. “Put an egg in your shoe and beat it.” Coming
from Brad, this was Rabelaisian wit.
“Any ghosts in there?” I asked.
“Hundreds, and I hope they all fly right up your ass.”
***
We started with Mysterio’s Mirror Mansion, pausing briefly to regard
ourselves drawn tall or smashed squat. With that minor giggle
accomplished, we followed the tiny red dots on the bottoms of certain
mirrors. These led us directly to the Wax Museum. Given this secret
roadmap, we arrived well ahead of the rest of the current group, who
wandered around, laughing and bumping into the various angled panes of
glass.
To Tom’s disappointment, there were no murderers in the Wax Museum,
only pols and celebs. A smiling John F. Kennedy and a jumpsuited Elvis
Presley flanked the doorway. Ignoring the PLEASE DO NOT TOUCH sign, Erin
gave Elvis’s guitar a strum. “Out of tu—” she began, then recoiled as Elvis
jerked to life and began singing “Can’t Help Falling in Love with You.”
“Gotcha!” Tom said gleefully, and gave her a hug.
Beyond the Wax Museum was a doorway leading to the Barrel and
Bridge Room, which rumbled with machinery that sounded dangerous (it
wasn’t) and stuttered with strobe lights of conflicting colors. Erin crossed to
the other side on the shaking, tilting Billy Goat’s Bridge while the macho
men accompanying her dared the Barrel. I stumbled my way through,

reeling like a drunk but only falling once. Tom stopped in the middle, stuck
out his hands and feet so he looked like a paperdoll, and made a complete
three-sixty that way.
“Stop it, you goof, you’ll break your neck!” Erin called.
“He won’t even if he falls,” I said. “It’s padded.”
Tom rejoined us, grinning and flushed to the roots of his hair. “That woke
up brain cells that have been asleep since I was three.”
“Yeah, but what about all the ones it killed?” Erin asked.
Next came the Tilted Room and beyond that was an arcade filled with
teenagers playing pinball and Skee-Ball. Erin watched the Skee-Ball for a
while, with her arms folded beneath her breasts and a disapproving look on
her face. “Don’t they know that’s a complete butcher’s game?”
“People come here to be butched,” I said. “It’s part of the attraction.”
Erin sighed. “And I thought Tom was a cynic.”
On the far side of the arcade, beneath a glowing green skull, was a sign
reading: HORROR HOUSE LIES BEYOND! BEWARE! PREGNANT WOMEN AND THOSE
WITH SMALL CHILDREN MAY EXIT LEFT.
We walked into an antechamber filled with echoing recorded cackles and
screams. Pulsing red light illuminated a single steel track and a black tunnel
entrance beyond. From deep within it came rumbles, flashing lights, and
more screams. These were not recorded. From a distance, they didn’t sound
particularly happy, but probably they were. Some, at least.
Eddie Parks, proprietor of Horror House and boss of Team Doberman,
walked over to us. He was wearing rawhide gloves and a dogtop so old it
was faded to no color at all (although it turned blood red each time the
lights pulsed). He gave us a dismissive sniff. “Must have been a damn
boring day off.”
“Just wanted to see how the other half lives,” Tom said.
Erin gave Eddie her most radiant smile. It was not returned.
“Three to a car, I guess. That what you want?”
“Yes,” I said.
“Fine with me. Just remember that the rules apply to you, same as anyone
else. Keep your fuckin hands inside.”
“Yessir,” Tom said, and gave a little salute. Eddie looked at him the way
a man might look at a new species of bug and walked back to his controls,

which consisted of three shifter-knobs sticking out of a waist-high podium.
There were also a few buttons illuminated by a Tensor lamp bent low to
minimize its less-than-ghostly white light.
“Charming guy,” Tom muttered.
Erin hooked an arm into Tom’s right elbow and my left, drawing us
close. “Does anyone like him?” she murmured.
“No,” Tom said. “Not even his own team. He’s already fired two of
them.”
The rest of our group started to catch up just as a train filled with
laughing conies (plus a few crying kids whose parents probably should have
heeded the warning and exited from the arcade) arrived. Erin asked one of
the girls if it was scary.
“The scary part was trying to keep his hands where they belong,” she
said, then squealed happily as her boyfriend first kissed her neck and then
pulled her toward the arcade.
We climbed aboard. Three of us in a car designed for two made for an
extremely tight fit, and I was very aware of Erin’s thigh pressing against
mine, and the brush of her breast against my arm. I felt a sudden and far
from unpleasant southward tingle. I would argue that—fantasies aside—the
majority of men are monogamous from the chin up. Below the belt-buckle,
however, there’s a wahoo stampeder who just doesn’t give a shit.
“Hands inside the caaa!” Eddie Parks was yelling in a bored-to-death
monotone that was the complete antithesis of a cheerful Lane Hardy pitch.
“Hands inside the caaa! You got a kid under three feet, put im in your lap or
get out of the caaa! Hold still and watch for the baaa!”
The safety bars came down with a clank, and a few girls tuned up with
preparatory screams. Clearing their vocal cords for dark-ride arias to come,
you might say.
There was a jerk, and we rode into Horror House.
***
Nine minutes later we got out and exited through the arcade with the rest of
the tip. Behind us, we could hear Eddie exhorting his next bunch to keep
their hands inside the caaa and watch for the baaa. He never gave us a
look.

“The dungeon part wasn’t scary, because all the prisoners were Dobies,”
Erin said. “The one in the pirate outfit was Billy Ruggerio.” Her color was
high, her hair was mussed from the blowers, and I thought she had never
looked so pretty. “But the Screaming Skull really got me, and the Torture
Chamber…my God!”
“Pretty gross,” I agreed. I’d seen a lot of horror movies during my high
school years, and thought of myself as inured, but seeing an eye-bulging
head come rolling down an inclined trough from the guillotine had jumped
the shit out of me. I mean, the mouth was still moving.
Out on Joyland Avenue again, we spotted Cam Jorgensen from Team
Foxhound selling lemonade. “Who wants one?” Erin asked. She was still
bubbling over. “I’m buying!”
“Sure,” I said.
“Tom?”
He shrugged his assent. Erin gave him a quizzical look, then ran to get
the drinks. I glanced at Tom, but he was watching the Rocket go around and
around. Or maybe looking through it.
Erin came back with three tall paper cups, half a lemon bobbing on top of
each. We took them to the benches in Joyland Park, just down from the
Wiggle-Waggle, and sat in the shade. Erin was talking about the bats at the
end of the ride, how she knew they were just wind-up toys on wires, but
bats had always scared the hell out of her and—
There she broke off. “Tom, are you okay? You haven’t said a word. Not
sick to your stomach from turning in the Barrel, are you?”
“My stomach’s fine.” He took a sip of his lemonade, as if to prove it.
“What was she wearing, Dev? Do you know?”
“Huh?”
“The girl who got murdered. Laurie Gray.”
“Linda Gray.”
“Laurie, Larkin, Linda, whatever. What was she wearing? Was it a full
skirt—a long one, down to her shins—and a sleeveless blouse?”
I looked at him closely. We both did, initially thinking it was just another
Tom Kennedy goof. Only he didn’t look like he was goofing. Now that I
really examined him, what he looked like was scared half to death.
“Tom?” Erin touched his shoulder. “Did you see her? Don’t joke, now.”

He put his hand over hers but didn’t look at her. He was looking at me.
“Yeah,” he said, “long skirt and sleeveless blouse. You know, because La
Shoplaw told you.”
“What color?” I asked.
“Hard to tell with the lights changing all the time, but I think blue.
Blouse and skirt both.”
Then Erin got it. “Holy shit,” she said in a kind of sigh. The high color
was leaving her cheeks in a hurry.
There was something else. Something the police had held back for a long
time, according to Mrs. Shoplaw.
“What about her hair, Tom? Ponytail, right?”
He shook his head. Took a small sip of his lemonade. Patted his mouth
with the back of his hand. His hair hadn’t gone gray, he wasn’t all stareyeyed, his hands weren’t shaking, but he still didn’t look like the same guy
who’d joked his way through the Mirror Mansion and the Barrel and Bridge
Room. He looked like a guy who’d just gotten a reality enema, one that had
flushed all the junior-year-summer-job bullshit out of his system.
“Not a ponytail. Her hair long, all right, but she had a thing across the top
of her head to keep it out of her face. I’ve seen a billion of em, but I can’t
remember what girls call it.”
“An Alice band,” Erin said.
“Yeah. I think that was blue, too. She was holding out her hands.” He
held his out in the exact same way Emmalina Shoplaw had held hers out on
the day she told me the story. “Like she was asking for help.”
“You already know this stuff from Mrs. Shoplaw,” I said. “Isn’t that
right? Tell us, we won’t be mad. Will we, Erin?”
“No, uh-uh.”
But Tom shook his head. “I’m just telling you what I saw. Neither of you
saw her?”
We had not, and said so.
“Why me?” Tom asked plaintively. “Once we were inside, I wasn’t even
thinking of her. I was just having fun. So why me?”
***

Erin tried to get more details while I drove us back to Heaven’s Bay in my
heap. Tom answered the first two or three of her questions, then said he
didn’t want to talk about it anymore in an abrupt tone I’d never heard him
use with Erin before. I don’t think she had, either, because she was quiet as
a mouse for the rest of the ride. Maybe they talked about it some more
between themselves, but I can tell you that he never spoke of it again to me
until about a month before he died, and then only briefly. It was near the
end of a phone conversation that had been painful because of his halting,
nasal voice and the way he sometimes got confused.
“At least…I know…there’s something,” he said. “I saw…for myself…
that summer. In the Hasty Hut.” I didn’t bother to correct him; I knew what
he meant. “Do you…remember?”
“I remember,” I said.
“But I don’t know…the something…if it’s good…or bad.” His dying
voice filled with horror. “The way she… Dev, the way she held out her
hands…”
Yes.
The way she held out her hands.
***
The next time I had a full day off, it was nearly the middle of August, and
the tide of conies was ebbing. I no longer had to jink and juke my way up
Joyland Avenue to the Carolina Spin…and to Madame Fortuna’s shy, which
stood in its revolving shadow.
Lane and Fortuna—she was all Fortuna today, in full gypsy kit—were
talking together by the Spin’s control station. Lane saw me and tipped his
derby widdershins, which was his way of acknowledging me.
“Look what the cat drug in,” he said. “How ya be, Jonesy?”
“Fine,” I said, although this wasn’t strictly true. The sleepless nights had
come back now that I was only wearing the fur four or five times a day. I
lay in my bed waiting for the small hours to get bigger, window open so I
could hear the incoming surf, thinking about Wendy and her new boyfriend.
Also thinking about the girl Tom had seen standing beside the tracks in
Horror House, in the fake brick tunnel between the Dungeon and the
Chamber of Torture.

I turned to Fortuna. “Can I talk to you?”
She didn’t ask why, just led me to her shy, swept aside the purple curtain
that hung in the doorway, and ushered me in. There was a round table
covered with a rose-pink cloth. On it was Fortuna’s crystal, now draped.
Two simple folding chairs were positioned so that seer and supplicant faced
each other over the crystal (which, I happened to know, was underlit by a
small bulb Madame Fortuna could operate with her foot). On the back wall
was a giant silk-screened hand, fingers spread and palm out. On it, neatly
labeled, were the Seven: lifeline, heart-line, headline, loveline (also known
as the Girdle of Venus), sunline, fateline, healthline.
Madame Fortuna gathered her skirts and seated herself. She motioned for
me to do the same. She did not undrape her crystal, nor did she invite me to
cross her palm with silver so that I might know the future.
“Ask what you came to ask,” she said.
“I want to know if the little girl was just an informed guess or if you
really knew something. Saw something.”
She looked at me, long and steadily. In Madame For-tuna’s place of
business, there was a faint smell of incense instead of popcorn and fried
dough. The walls were flimsy, but the music, the chatter of the conies, and
the rumble of the rides all seemed very far away. I wanted to look down, but
managed not to.
“Actually, you want to know if I’m a fraud. Isn’t that so?”
“I…ma’am, I honestly don’t know what I want.”
At that she smiled. It was a good one—as if I had passed some sort of
test. “You’re a sweet boy, Jonesy, but like so many sweet boys, you’re a
punk liar.”
I started to reply; she hushed me with a wave of her ring-heavy right
hand. She reached beneath her table and brought out her cashbox. Madame
Fortuna’s readings were free—all part of your admission fee, ladies and
gentlemen, boys and girls—but tips were encouraged. And legal under
North Carolina law. When she opened the box, I saw a sheaf of crumpled
bills, mostly ones, something that looked suspiciously like a punchboard
(not legal under North Carolina law), and a single small envelope. Printed
on the front was my name. She held it out. I hesitated, then took it.
“You didn’t come to Joyland today just to ask me that,” she said.
“Well…”

She waved me off again. “You know exactly what you want. In the short
term, at least. And since the short term is all any of us have, who is Fortuna
—or Rozzie Gold, for that matter—to argue with you? Go now. Do what
you came here to do. When it’s done, open that and read what I’ve written.”
She smiled. “No charge to employees. Especially not good kids like you.”
“I don’t—”
She rose in a swirl of skirts and a rattle of jewelry. “Go, Jonesy. We’re
finished here.”
***
I left her tight little booth in a daze. Music from two dozen shys and rides
seemed to hit me like conflicting winds, and the sun was a hammer. I went
directly to the administration building (actually a doublewide trailer), gave
a courtesy knock, went in, and said hello to Brenda Rafferty, who was going
back and forth between an open account book and her faithful adding
machine.
“Hello, Devin,” she said. “Are you taking care of your Hollywood Girl?”
“Yes, ma’am, we all watch out for her.”
“Dana Elkhart, isn’t it?”
“Erin Cook, ma’am.”
“Erin, of course. Team Beagle. The redhead. What can I do for you?”
“I wonder if I could speak to Mr. Easterbrook.”
“He’s resting, and I hate to disturb him. He had an awful lot of phone
calls to make earlier, and we still have to go over some numbers, much as I
hate to bother him with them. He tires very easily these days.”
“I wouldn’t be long.”
She sighed. “I suppose I could see if he’s awake. Can you tell me what
it’s about?”
“A favor,” I said. “He’ll understand.”
***
He did, and only asked me two questions. The first was if I was sure. I said
I was. The second…
“Have you told your parents yet, Jonesy?”

“It’s just me and my dad, Mr. Easterbrook, and I’ll do that tonight.”
“Very well, then. Put Brenda in the picture before you leave. She’ll have
all the necessary paperwork, and you can fill it out…” Before he could
finish, his mouth opened and he displayed his horsey teeth in a vast, gaping
yawn. “Excuse me, son. It’s been a tiring day. A tiring summer.”
“Thank you, Mr. Easterbrook.”
He waved his hand. “Very welcome. I’m sure you’ll be a great addition,
but if you do this without your father’s consent, I shall be disappointed in
you. Close the door on your way out, please.”
I tried not to see Brenda’s frown as she searched her file cabinets and
hunted out the various forms Joyland, Inc. required for full-time
employment. It didn’t matter, because I felt her disapproval anyway. I
folded the paperwork, stuck it in the back pocket of my jeans, and left.
Beyond the line of donnikers at the far end of the backyard was a little
grove of blackgum trees. I went in there, sat down with my back against
one, and opened the envelope Madame Fortuna had given me. The note was
brief and to the point.
You’re going to Mr. Easterbrook to ask if you can stay on at the
park after Labor Day. You know he will not refuse your request.
She was right, I wanted to know if she was a fraud. Here was her answer.
And yes, I had made up my mind about what came next in the life of Devin
Jones. She had been right about that, too.
But there was one more line.
You saved the little girl, but dear boy! You can’t save everyone.
***
After I told my dad I wasn’t going back to UNH—that I needed a year off
from college and planned to spend it at Joyland—there was a long silence at
the southern Maine end of the line. I thought he might yell at me, but he
didn’t. He only sounded tired. “It’s that girl, isn’t it?”
I’d told him almost two months earlier that Wendy and I were “taking
some time off,” but Dad saw right through that. Since then, he hadn’t
spoken her name a single time in our weekly phone conversations. Now she

was just that girl. After the first couple of times he said it I tried a joke,
asking if he thought I’d been going out with Marlo Thomas. He wasn’t
amused. I didn’t try again.
“Wendy’s part of it,” I admitted, “but not all of it. I just need some time
off. A breather. And I’ve gotten to like it here.”
He sighed. “Maybe you do need a break. At least you’ll be working
instead of hitchhiking around Europe, like Dewey Michaud’s girl. Fourteen
months in youth hostels! Fourteen and counting! Ye gods! She’s apt to
come back with ringworm and a bun in the oven.”
“Well,” I said, “I think I can avoid both of those. If I’m careful.”
“Just make sure you avoid the hurricanes. It’s supposed to be a bad
season for them.”
“Are you really all right with this, Dad?”
“Why? Did you want me to argue? Try to talk you out of it? If that’s what
you want, I’m willing to give it a shot, but I know what your mother would
say—if he’s old enough to buy a legal drink, he’s old enough to start
making decisions about his life.”
I smiled. “Yeah. That sounds like her.”
“As for me, I guess I don’t want you going back to college if you’re
going to spend all your time mooning over that girl and letting your grades
go to hell. If painting rides and fixing up concessions will help get her out
of your system, probably that’s a good thing. But what about your
scholarship and loan package, if you want to go back in the fall of ’74?”
“It won’t be a problem. I’ve got a 3.2 cume, which is pretty persuasive.”
“That girl,” he said in tones of infinite disgust, and then we moved on to
other topics.
***
I was still sad and depressed about how things had ended with Wendy, he
was right about that, but I had begun the difficult trip (the journey, as they
say in the self-help groups these days) from denial to acceptance. Anything
like true serenity was still over the horizon, but I no longer believed—as I
had in the long, painful days and nights of June—that serenity was out of
the question.

Staying had to do with other things that I couldn’t even begin to sort out,
because they were piled helter-skelter in an untidy stack and bound with the
rough twine of intuition. Hallie Stansfield was there. So was Bradley
Easterbrook, way back at the beginning of the summer, saying we sell fun.
The sound of the ocean at night was there, and the way a strong onshore
breeze would make a little song when it blew through the struts of the
Carolina Spin. The cool tunnels under the park were there. So was the Talk,
that secret language the other greenies would have forgotten by the time
Christmas break rolled around. I didn’t want to forget it; it was too rich. I
felt that Joyland had something more to give me. I didn’t know what, just…
s’more.
But mostly—this is weird, I have examined and reexamined my
memories of those days to make sure it’s a true memory, and it seems to be
—it was because it had been our Doubting Thomas to see the ghost of
Linda Gray. It had changed him in small but fundamental ways. I don’t
think Tom wanted to change—I think he was happy just as he was—but I
did.
I wanted to see her, too.
***
During the second half of August, several of the old-timers—Pop Allen for
one, Dottie Lassen for another—told me to pray for rain on Labor Day
weekend. There was no rain, and by Saturday afternoon I understood what
they meant. The conies came back in force for one final grand hurrah, and
Joyland was tipsed to the gills. What made it worse was that half of the
summer help was gone by then, headed back to their various schools. The
ones who were left worked like dogs.
Some of us didn’t just work like dogs, but as dogs—one dog in particular.
I saw most of that holiday weekend through the mesh eyes of Howie the
Happy Hound. On Sunday I climbed into that damned fur suit a dozen
times. After my second-to-last turn of the day, I was three-quarters of the
way down the Boulevard beneath Joyland Avenue when the world started to
swim away from me in shades of gray. Shades of Linda Gray, I remember
thinking.

I was driving one of the little electric service-carts with the fur pushed
down to my waist so I could feel the air conditioning on my sweaty chest,
and when I realized I was losing it, I had the good sense to pull over to the
wall and take my foot off the rubber button that served as the accelerator.
Fat Wally Schmidt, who ran the guess-your-weight shy, happened to be
taking a break in the boneyard at the time. He saw me parked askew and
slumped over the cart’s steering bar. He got a pitcher of icewater out of the
fridge, waddled down to me, and lifted my chin with one chubby hand.
“Hey greenie. You got another suit, or is that the only one that fits ya?”
“Theresh another one,” I said. I sounded drunk. “Cos-sume shop. Ex’ra
large.”
“Oh hey, that’s good,” he said, and dumped the pitcher over my head. My
scream of surprise echoed up and down the Boulevard and brought several
people running.
“What the fuck, Fat Wally?”
He grinned. “Wakes ya up, don’t it? Damn right it does. Labor Day
weekend, greenie. That means ya labor. No sleepin on the job. Thank yer
lucky stars n bars it ain’t a hunnert and ten out there.”
If it had been a hunnert and ten, I wouldn’t be telling this story; I would
have died of a baked brain halfway through a Happy Howie Dance on the
Wiggle-Waggle Story Stage. But Labor Day itself was actually cloudy, and
featured a nice sea-breeze. I got through it somehow.
Around four o’clock that Monday, as I was climbing into the spare fur for
my final show of the summer, Tom Kennedy strolled into the costume shop.
His dogtop and filthy sneakers were gone. He was wearing crisply pressed
chinos (wherever were you keeping them, I wondered), a neatly tucked-in
Ivy League shirt, and Bass Weejuns. Rosy-cheeked son of a bitch had even
gotten a haircut. He looked every inch the up-and-coming college boy with
his eye on the business world. You never would have guessed that he’d
been dressed in filthy Levis only two days before, displaying at least an
inch of ass-cleavage as he crawled under the Zipper with an oil-bucket and
cursing Pop Allen, our fearless Team Beagle leader, every time he bumped
his head on a strut.
“You on your way?” I asked.
“That’s a big ten-four, good buddy. I’m taking the train to Philly at eight
tomorrow morning. I’ve got a week at home, then it’s back to the grind.”

“Good for you.”
“Erin’s got some stuff to finish up, but then she’s meeting me in
Wilmington tonight. I booked us a room at a nice little bed and breakfast.”
I felt a dull throb of jealousy at that. “Good deal.”
“She’s the real thing,” he said.
“I know.”
“So are you, Dev. We’ll stay in touch. People say that and don’t mean it,
but I do. We will stay in touch.” He held out his hand.
I took it and shook it. “That’s right, we will. You’re okay, Tom, and
Erin’s the total package. You take care of her.”
“No problem there.” He grinned. “Come spring semester, she’s
transferring to Rutgers. I already taught her the Scarlet Knights fight song.
You know, ‘Upstream, Redteam, Redteam, Upstream—’ ”
“Sounds complex,” I said.
He shook his finger at me. “Sarcasm will get you nowhere in this world,
boy. Unless you’re angling for a writing job at Mad magazine, that is.”
Dottie Lassen called, “Maybe you could shorten up the farewells and
keep the tears to a minimum? You’ve got a show to do, Jonesy.”
Tom turned to her and held out his arms. “Dottie, how I love you! How
I’ll miss you!”
She slapped her bottom to show just how much this moved her and
turned away to a costume in need of repair.
Tom handed me a scrap of paper. “My home address, school address,
phone numbers for both. I expect you to use them.”
“I will.”
“You’re really going to give up a year you could spend drinking beer and
getting laid to scrape paint here at Joyland?”
“Yep.”
“Are you crazy?”
I considered this. “Probably. A little. But getting better.”
I was sweaty and his clothes were clean, but he gave me a brief hug just
the same. Then he headed for the door, pausing to give Dottie a kiss on one
wrinkled cheek. She couldn’t cuss at him—her mouth was full of pins at the
time—but she shooed him away with a flap of her hand.
At the door, he turned back to me. “You want some advice, Dev? Stay
away from…” He finished with a head-jerk, and I knew well enough what

he meant: Horror House. Then he was gone, probably thinking about his
visit home, and Erin, the car he hoped to buy, and Erin, the upcoming
school year, and Erin. Upstream, Redteam, Redteam, Upstream. Come
spring semester, they could chant it together. Hell, they could chant it that
very night, if they wanted to. In Wilmington. In bed. Together.
***
There was no punch-clock at the park; our comings and goings were
supervised by our team leaders. After my final turn as Howie on that first
Monday in September, Pop Allen told me to bring him my time-card.
“I’ve got another hour,” I said.
“Nah, someone’s waiting at the gate to walk you back.” I knew who the
someone had to be. It was hard to believe there was a soft spot in Pop’s
shriveled-up raisin of a heart for anyone, but there was, and that summer
Miss Erin Cook owned it.
“You know the deal tomorrow?”
“Seven-thirty to six,” I said. And no fur. What a blessing.
“I’ll be running you for the first couple of weeks, then I’m off to sunny
Florida. After that, you’re Lane Hardy’s responsibility. And Freddy Dean, I
guess, if he happens to notice you’re still around.”
“Got it.”
“Good. I’ll sign your card and then you’re ten-forty-two.” Which meant
the same thing in the Talk as it did on the CBs that were so popular then:
End of tour. “And Jonesy? Tell that girl to send me a postcard once in a
while. I’ll miss her.”
He wasn’t the only one.
***
Erin had also begun making the transition back from Joyland Life to Real
Life. Gone were the faded jeans and tee-shirt with the sassy rolled-to-theshoulder sleeves; ditto the green Hollywood Girl dress and Sherwood
Forest hat. The girl standing in the scarlet shower of neon just outside the
gate was wearing a silky blue sleeveless blouse tucked into a belted A-line
skirt. Her hair was pinned back and she looked gorgeous.

“Walk me up the beach,” she said. “I’ll just have time to catch the bus to
Wilmington. I’m meeting Tom.”
“He told me. But never mind the bus. I’ll drive you.”
“Would you do that?”
“Sure.”
We walked along the fine white sand. A half-moon had risen in the sky,
and it beat a track across the water. Halfway to Heaven’s Beach—it was, in
fact, not far from the big green Victorian that played such a part in my life
that fall—she took my hand, and we walked that way. We didn’t say much
until we reached the steps leading up to the beach parking lot. There she
turned to me.
“You’ll get over her.” Her eyes were on mine. She wasn’t wearing
makeup that night, and didn’t need any. The moonlight was her makeup.
“Yes,” I said. I knew it was true, and part of me was sorry. It’s hard to let
go. Even when what you’re holding onto is full of thorns, it’s hard to let go.
Maybe especially then.
“And for now this is the right place for you. I feel that.”
“Does Tom feel it?”
“No, but he never felt about Joyland the way you do…and the way I did
this summer. And after what happened that day in the funhouse…what he
saw…”
“Do the two of you ever talk about that?”
“I tried. Now I leave it alone. It doesn’t fit into his philosophy of how the
world works, so he’s trying to make it gone. But I think he worries about
you.”
“Do you worry about me?”
“About you and the ghost of Linda Gray, no. About you and the ghost of
that Wendy, a little.”
I grinned. “My father no longer speaks her name. Just calls her ‘that girl.’
Erin, would you do me a favor when you get back to school? If you have
time, that is?”
“Sure. What is it?”
I told her.
***

She asked if I would drop her at the Wilmington bus station instead of
taking her directly to the B&B Tom had booked. She said she’d rather take
a taxi there. I started to protest that it was a waste of money, then didn’t.
She looked flustered, a trifle embarrassed, and I guessed it had something to
do with not wanting to climb out of my car just so she could drop her
clothes and climb into the sack with Tom Kennedy two minutes later.
When I pulled up opposite the taxi stand, she put her hands on the sides
of my face and kissed my mouth. It was a long and thoroughly thorough
kiss.
“If Tom hadn’t been there, I would have made you forget that stupid
girl,” she said.
“But he was,” I said.
“Yes. He was. Stay in touch, Dev.”
“Remember what I asked you to do. If you get a chance, that is.”
“I’ll remember. You’re a sweet man.”
I don’t know why, but that made me feel like crying. I smiled instead.
“Also, admit it, I made one hell of a Howie.”
“That you did. Devin Jones, savior of little girls.”
For a moment I thought she was going to kiss me again, but she didn’t.
She slid out of my car and ran across the street to the taxis, skirt flying. I sat
there until I saw her climb into the back of a Yellow and drive away. Then I
drove away myself, back to Heaven’s Beach, and Mrs. Shoplaw’s, and my
autumn at Joyland—both the best and worst autumn of my life.
***
Were Annie and Mike Ross sitting at the end of the green Victorian’s
boardwalk when I headed down the beach to the park on that Tuesday after
Labor Day? I remember the warm croissants I ate as I walked, and the
circling gulls, but of them I can’t be completely sure. They became such an
important part of the scenery—such a landmark—that it’s impossible to
pinpoint the first time I actually noticed their presence. Nothing screws with
memory like repetition.
Ten years after the events I’m telling you about, I was (for my sins,
maybe) a staff writer on Cleveland magazine. I used to do most of my firstdraft writing on yellow legal pads in a coffee shop on West Third Street,

near Lakefront Stadium, which was the Indians’ stomping grounds back
then. Every day at ten, this young woman would come in and get four or
five coffees, then take them back to the real estate office next door. I
couldn’t tell you the first time I saw her, either. All I know is that one day I
saw her, and realized that she sometimes glanced at me as she went out. The
day came when I returned that glance, and when she smiled, I did, too.
Eight months later we were married.
Annie and Mike were like that; one day they just became a real part of
my world. I always waved, the kid in the wheelchair always waved back,
and the dog sat watching me with his ears cocked and the wind ruffling his
fur. The woman was blonde and beautiful—high cheekbones, wide-set blue
eyes, and full lips, the kind that always look a little bruised. The boy in the
wheelchair wore a White Sox cap that came down over his ears. He looked
very sick. His smile was healthy enough, though. Whether I was going or
coming, he always flashed it. Once or twice he even flashed me the peace
sign, and I sent it right back. I had become part of his landscape, just as he
had become part of mine. I think even Milo, the Jack Russell, came to
recognize me as part of the landscape. Only Mom held herself apart. Often
when I passed, she never even looked up from whatever book she was
reading. When she did she didn’t wave, and she certainly never flashed the
peace sign.
***
I had plenty to occupy my time at Joyland, and if the work wasn’t as
interesting and varied as it had been during the summer, it was steadier and
less exhausting. I even got a chance to reprise my award-winning role as
Howie, and to sing a few more choruses of “Happy Birthday to You” in the
Wiggle-Waggle Village, because Joyland was open to the public for the first
three weekends in September. Attendance was way down, though, and I
didn’t jock a single tipsed ride. Not even the Carolina Spin, which was
second only to the merry-go-round as our most popular attraction.
“Up north in New England, most parks stay open weekends until
Halloween,” Fred Dean told me one day. We were sitting on a bench and
eating a nourishing, vitamin-rich lunch of chili burgers and pork rinds.
“Down south in Florida, they run year-round. We’re in a kind of gray zone.

Mr. Easterbrook tried pushing for a fall season back in the sixties—spent a
bundle on a big advertising blitz—but it didn’t work very well. By the time
the nights start getting nippy, people around here start thinking about
county fairs and such. Also, a lot of our vets head south or out west for the
winter.” He looked down the empty expanse of Hound Dog Way and
sighed. “This place gets kind of lonely this time of year.”
“I like it,” I said, and I did. That was my year to embrace loneliness. I
sometimes went to the movies in Lumberton or Myrtle Beach with Mrs.
Shoplaw and Tina Ackerley, the librarian with the goo-goo-googly eyes, but
I spent most evenings in my room, re-reading The Lord of the Rings and
writing letters to Erin, Tom, and my dad. I also wrote a fair amount of
poetry, which I am now embarrassed even to think about. Thank God I
burned it. I added a new and satisfyingly grim record to my small collection
—The Dark Side of the Moon. In the Book of Proverbs we are advised that
“as a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly.” That autumn I
returned to Dark Side again and again, only giving Floyd the occasional rest
so I could listen to Jim Morrison once more intone, “This is the end,
beautiful friend.” Such a really bad case of the twenty-ones—I know, I
know.
At least there was plenty at Joyland to occupy my days. The first couple
of weeks, while the park was still running part-time, were devoted to fall
cleaning. Fred Dean put me in charge of a small crew of gazoonies, and by
the time the CLOSED FOR THE SEASON sign went up out front, we had raked
and cut every lawn, prepared every flowerbed for winter, and scrubbed
down every joint and shy. We slapped together a prefab corrugated metal
shed in the backyard and stored the food carts (called grub-rollers in the
Talk) there for the winter, each popcorn wagon, Sno-Cone wagon, and PupA-Licious wagon snugged under its own green tarp.
When the gazoonies headed north to pick apples, I started the winterizing
process with Lane Hardy and Eddie Parks, the ill-tempered vet who ran
Horror House (and Team Doberman) during the season. We drained the
fountain at the intersection of Joyland Avenue and Hound Dog Way, and
had moved on to Captain Nemo’s Splash & Crash—a much bigger job—
when Bradley Easterbrook, dressed for traveling in his black suit, came by.

“I’m off to Sarasota this evening,” he told us. “Brenda Rafferty will be
with me, as usual.” He smiled, showing those horse teeth of his. “I’m
touring the park and saying my thank-yous. To those who are left, that is.”
“Have a wonderful winter, Mr. Easterbrook,” Lane said.
Eddie muttered something that sounded to me like eat a wooden ship, but
was probably have a good trip.
“Thanks for everything,” I said.
He shook hands with the three of us, coming to me last. “I hope to see
you again next year, Jonesy. I think you’re a young man with more than a
little carny in his soul.”
But he didn’t see me the following year, and nobody saw him. Mr.
Easterbrook died on New Year’s Day, in a condo on John Ringling
Boulevard, less than half a mile from where the famous circus winters.
“Crazy old bastid,” Parks said, watching Easterbrook walk to his car,
where Brenda was waiting to receive him and help him in.
Lane gave him a long, steady look, then said: “Shut it, Eddie.”
Eddie did. Which was probably wise.
***
One morning, as I walked to Joyland with my croissants, the Jack Russell
finally trotted down the beach to investigate me.
“Milo, come back!” the woman called.
Milo turned to look at her, then looked back at me with his bright black
eyes. On impulse, I tore a piece from one of my pastries, squatted, and held
it out to him. Milo came like a shot.
“Don’t you feed him!” the woman called sharply.
“Aw, Mom, get over it,” the boy said.
Milo heard her and didn’t take the shred of croissant…but he did sit up
before me with his front paws held out. I gave him the bite.
“I won’t do it again,” I said, getting up, “but I couldn’t let a good trick go
to waste.”
The woman snorted and went back to her book, which was thick and
looked arduous. The boy called, “We feed him all the time. He never puts
on weight, just runs it off.”

Without looking up from her book, Mom said: “What do we know about
talking to strangers, Mike-O?”
“He’s not exactly a stranger when we see him every day,” the boy pointed
out. Reasonably enough, at least from my point of view.
“I’m Devin Jones,” I said. “From down the beach. I work at Joyland.”
“Then you won’t want to be late.” Still not looking up.
The boy shrugged at me—whattaya gonna do, it said. He was pale and as
bent-over as an old man, but I thought there was a lively sense of humor in
that shrug and the look that went with it. I returned the shrug and walked
on. The next morning I took care to finish my croissants before I got to the
big green Victorian so Milo wouldn’t be tempted, but I waved. The kid,
Mike, waved back. The woman was in her usual place under the green
umbrella, and she had no book, but—as per usual—she didn’t wave to me.
Her lovely face was closed. There is nothing here for you, it said. Go on
down to your trumpery amusement park and leave us alone.
So that was what I did. But I continued to wave, and the kid waved back.
Morning and night, the kid waved back.
***
The Monday after Gary “Pop” Allen left for Florida—bound for Alston’s
All-Star Carnival in Jacksonville, where he had a job waiting as shy-boss—
I arrived at Joyland and found Eddie Parks, my least favorite old-timer,
sitting in front of Horror House on an apple-box. Smoking was verboten in
the park, but with Mr. Easterbrook gone and Fred Dean nowhere in
evidence, Eddie seemed to feel it safe to flout the rule. He was smoking
with his gloves on, which would have struck me as strange if he ever took
them off, but he never seemed to.
“There you are, kiddo, and only five minutes late.” Everyone else called
me either Dev or Jonesy, but to Eddie I was just kiddo, and always would
be.
“I’ve got seven-thirty on the nose,” I said, tapping my watch.
“Then you’re slow. Why don’t you drive from town, like everybody else?
You could be here in five minutes.”
“I like the beach.”

“I don’t give a tin shit what you like, kiddo, just get here on time. This
isn’t like one of your college classes, when you can duck in and out anytime
you want to. This is a job, and now that the Head Beagle is gone, you’re
gonna work like it’s a job.”
I could have pointed out that Pop had told me Lane Hardy would be in
charge of my schedule after he, Pop, was gone, but kept my lip zipped. No
sense making a bad situation worse. As to why Eddie had taken a dislike to
me, that was obvious. Eddie was an equal-opportunity disliker. I’d go to
Lane if life with Eddie got too hard, but only as a last resort. My father had
taught me—mostly by example—that if a man wanted to be in charge of his
life, he had to be in charge of his problems.
“What have you got for me, Mr. Parks?”
“Plenty. I want you to get a tub of Turtle Wax from the supply shed to
start with, and don’t be lingerin down there to shoot the shit with any of
your pals, either. Then I want you to go on in Horra and wax all them cars.”
Except, of course, he said it caaas. “You know we wax em once the
season’s over, don’t you?”
“Actually I didn’t.”
“Jesus Christ, you kids.” He stomped on his cigarette butt, then lifted the
apple-box he was sitting on enough to toss it under. As if that would make it
gone. “You want to really put some elbow-grease into it, kiddo, or I’ll send
you back in to do it again. You got that?”
“I got it.”
“Good for you.” He stuck another cigarette in his gob, then fumbled in
his pants pocket for his lighter. With the gloves on, it took him a while. He
finally got it, flicked back the lid, then stopped. “What are you looking at?”
“Nothing,” I said.
“Then get going. Flip on the house lights so you can see what the fuck
you’re doing. You know where the switches are, don’t you?”
I didn’t, but I’d find them without his help. “Sure.”
He eyed me sourly. “Ain’t you the smart one.” Smaaat.
***
I found a metal box marked LTS on the wall between the Wax Museum and
the Barrel and Bridge Room. I opened it and flipped up all the switches

with the heel of my hand. Horror House should have lost all of its
cheesy/sinister mystique with all the house lights on, but somehow didn’t.
There were still shadows in the corners, and I could hear the wind—quite
strong that morning—blowing outside the joint’s thin wooden walls and
rattling a loose board somewhere. I made a mental note to track it down and
fix it.
I had a wire basket swinging from one hand. It was filled with clean rags
and a giant economy-size can of Turtle Wax. I carried it through the Tilted
Room—now frozen on a starboard slant—and into the arcade. I looked at
the Skee-Ball machines and remembered Erin’s disapproval: Don’t they
know that’s a complete butcher’s game? I smiled at the memory, but my
heart was beating hard. I knew what I was going to do when I’d finished my
chore, you see.
The cars, twenty in all, were lined up at the loading point. Ahead, the
tunnel leading into the bowels of Horror House was lit by a pair of bright
white work lights instead of flashing strobes. It looked a lot more prosaic
that way.
I was pretty sure Eddie hadn’t so much as swiped the little cars with a
damp rag all summer long, and that meant I had to start by washing them
down. Which also meant fetching soap powder from the supply shed and
carrying buckets of water from the nearest working tap. By the time I had
all twenty cars washed and rinsed off, it was break-time, but I decided to
work right through instead of going out to the backyard or down to the
boneyard for coffee. I might meet Eddie at either place, and I’d listened to
enough of his grouchy bullshit for one morning. I set to work polishing
instead, laying the Turtle Wax on thick and then buffing it off, moving from
car to car, making them shine in the overhead lights until they looked new
again. Not that the next crowd of thrill-seekers would notice as they
crowded in for their nine-minute ride. My own gloves were ruined by the
time I was finished. I’d have to buy a new pair at the hardware store in
town, and good ones didn’t come cheap. I amused myself briefly by
imagining how Eddie would react if I asked him to pay for them.
I stashed my basket of dirty rags and Turtle Wax (the can now mostly
empty) by the exit door in the arcade. It was ten past noon, but right then
food wasn’t what I was hungry for. I tried to stretch the ache out of my arms
and legs, then went back to the loading-point. I paused to admire the cars

gleaming mellowly beneath the lights, then walked slowly along the track
and into Horror House proper.
I had to duck my head when I passed beneath the Screaming Skull, even
though it was now pulled up and locked in its home position. Beyond it was
the Dungeon, where the live talent from Eddie’s Team Doberman had tried
(and mostly succeeded) in scaring the crap out of children of all ages with
their moans and howls. Here I could straighten up again, because it was a
tall room. My footfalls echoed on a wooden floor painted to look like stone.
I could hear my breathing. It sounded harsh and dry. I was scared, okay?
Tom had told me to stay away from this place, but Tom didn’t run my life
any more than Eddie Parks did. I had the Doors, and I had Pink Floyd, but I
wanted more. I wanted Linda Gray.
Between the Dungeon and the Torture Chamber, the track descended and
described a double-S curve where the cars picked up speed and whipped the
riders back and forth. Horror House was a dark ride, but when it was in
operation, this stretch was the only completely dark part. It had to be where
the girl’s killer had cut her throat and dumped her body. How quick he must
have been, and how certain of exactly what he was going to do! Beyond the
last curve, riders were dazzled by a mix of stuttering, multi-colored strobes.
Although Tom had never said it in so many words, I was positive it was
where he had seen what he’d seen.
I walked slowly down the double-S, thinking it would not be beyond
Eddie to hear me and shut off the overhead work-lights as a joke. To leave
me in here to feel my way past the murder site with only the sound of the
wind and that one slapping board to keep me company. And suppose…just
suppose…a young girl’s hand reached out in that darkness and took mine,
the way Erin had taken my hand that last night on the beach?
The lights stayed on. No bloody shirt and gloves appeared beside the
track, glowing spectrally. And when I came to what I felt sure was the right
spot, just before the entrance to the Torture Chamber, there was no ghostgirl holding her hands out to me.
Yet something was there. I knew it then and I know it now. The air was
colder. Not cold enough to see my breath, but yes, definitely colder. My
arms and legs and groin all prickled with gooseflesh, and the hair at the
nape of my neck stiffened.

“Let me see you,” I whispered, feeling foolish and terrified. Wanting it to
happen, hoping it wouldn’t.
There was a sound. A long, slow sigh. Not a human sigh, not in the least.
It was as if someone had opened an invisible steam-valve. Then it was
gone. There was no more. Not that day.
***
“Took you long enough,” Eddie said when I finally reappeared at quarter to
one. He was seated on the same apple-box, now with the remains of a BLT
in one hand and a Styrofoam cup of coffee in the other. I was filthy from the
neck down. Eddie, on the other hand, looked fresh as a daisy.
“The cars were pretty dirty. I had to wash them before I could wax them.”
Eddie hawked back phlegm, twisted his head, and spat. “If you want a
medal, I’m fresh out. Go find Hardy. He says it’s time to drain the
irrygation system. That should keep a lag-ass like you busy until quittin
time. If it don’t, come see me and I’ll find something else for you to do. I
got a whole list, believe me.”
“Okay.” I started off, glad to be going.
“Kiddo!”
I turned back reluctantly.
“Did you see her in there?”
“Huh?”
He grinned unpleasantly. “Don’t ‘huh’ me. I know what you were doin.
You weren’t the first, and you won’t be the last. Did you see her?”
“Have you ever seen her?”
“Nope.” He looked at me, sly little gimlet eyes peering out of a narrow
sunburned face. How old was he? Thirty? Sixty? It was impossible to tell,
just as it was impossible to tell if he was speaking the truth. I didn’t care. I
just wanted to be away from him. He gave me the creeps.
Eddie raised his gloved hands. “The guy who did it wore a pair of these.
Did you know that?”
I nodded. “Also an extra shirt.”
“That’s right.” His grin widened. “To keep the blood off. And it worked,
didn’t it? They never caught him. Now get out of here.”

***
When I got to the Spin, only Lane’s shadow was there to greet me. The man
it belonged to was halfway up the wheel, climbing the struts. He tested each
steel crosspiece before he put his weight on it. A leather toolkit hung on one
hip, and every now and then he reached into it for a socket wrench. Joyland
only had a single dark ride, but almost a dozen so-called high rides,
including the Spin, the Zipper, the Thunderball, and the Delirium Shaker.
There was a three-man maintenance crew that checked them each day
before Early Gate during the season, and of course there were visits (both
announced and unannounced) from the North Carolina State Inspector of
Amusements, but Lane said a ride-jock who didn’t check his ride himself
was both lazy and irresponsible. Which made me wonder when Eddie Parks
had last ridden in one of his own caaas and safety-checked the baaas.
Lane looked down, saw me, and shouted: “Did that ugly sonofabitch ever
give you a lunch break?”
“I worked through it,” I called back. “Lost track of time.” But now I was
hungry.
“There’s some tuna-and-macaroni salad in my doghouse, if you want it. I
made up way too much last night.”
I went into the little control shack, found a good-sized Tupperware
container, and popped it open. By the time Lane was back on the ground,
the tuna-and-macaroni was in my stomach and I was tamping it down with
a couple of leftover Fig Newtons.
“Thanks, Lane. That was tasty.”
“Yeah, I’ll make some guy a good wife someday. Gimme some of those
Newtons before they all go down your throat.”
I handed over the box. “How’s the ride?”
“The Spin is tight and the Spin is right. Want to help me work on the
engine for a while after you’ve digested a little?”
“Sure.”
He took off his derby and spun it on his finger. His hair was pulled back
in a tight little ponytail, and I noticed a few threads of white in the black.
They hadn’t been there at the start of the summer—I was quite sure of it.
“Listen, Jonesy, Eddie Parks is carny-from-carny, but that doesn’t change
the fact that he’s one mean-ass sonofabitch. In his eyes, you got two strikes

against you: you’re young and you’ve been educated beyond the eighth
grade. When you get tired of taking his shit, tell me and I’ll get him to back
off.”
“Thanks, but I’m okay for now.”
“I know you are. I’ve been watching how you handle yourself, and I’m
impressed. But Eddie’s not your average bear.”
“He’s a bully,” I said.
“Yeah, but here’s the good news: like with most bullies, you scratch the
surface and find pure chickenshit underneath. Usually not very far
underneath, either. There are people on the show he’s afraid of, and I
happen to be one of them. I’ve whacked his nose before and I don’t mind
whacking it again. All I’m saying is that if the day comes when you want a
little breathing room, I’ll see that you get it.”
“Can I ask you a question about him?”
“Shoot.”
“Why does he always wear those gloves?”
Lane laughed, stuck his derby on his head, and gave it the correct tilt.
“Psoriasis. His hands are scaly with it, or so he says—I can’t tell you the
last time I actually saw them. He says without the gloves, he scratches them
until they bleed.”
“Maybe that’s what makes him so bad-tempered.”
“I think it’s more likely the other way around—the bad temper made the
bad skin.” He tapped his temple. “Head controls body, that’s what I believe.
Come on, Jonesy, let’s get to work.”
***
We finished putting the Spin right for its long winter’s nap, then moved on
to the irrigation system. By the time the pipes were blown out with
compressed air and the drains had swallowed several gallons of antifreeze,
the sun was lowering toward the trees west of the park and the shadows
were lengthening.
“That’s enough for today,” Lane said. “More than enough. Bring me your
card and I’ll sign it.”
I tapped my watch, showing him it was only quarter past five.

He shook his head, smiling. “I’ve got no problem writing six on the card.
You did twelve hours’ worth today, kiddo. Twelve easy.”
“Okay,” I said, “but don’t call me kiddo. That’s what he calls me.” I
jerked my head toward Horror House.
“I’ll make a note of it. Now bring me your card and buzz off.”
***
The wind had died a little during the afternoon, but it was still warm and
breezy when I set off down the beach. On many of those walks back to
town I liked to watch my long shadow on the waves, but that evening I
mostly watched my feet. I was tired out. What I wanted was a ham and
cheese sandwich from Betty’s Bakery and a couple of beers from the 7Eleven next door. I’d go back to my room, settle into my chair by the
window, and read me some Tolkien as I ate. I was deep into The Two
Towers.
What made me look up was the boy’s voice. The breeze was in my favor,
and I could hear him clearly. “Faster, Mom! You’ve almost g—” He was
temporarily stopped by a coughing fit. Then: “You’ve almost got it!”
Mike’s mother was on the beach tonight instead of beneath her umbrella.
She was running toward me but didn’t see me, because she was looking at
the kite she was holding over her head. The string ran back to the boy,
seated in his wheelchair at the end of the boardwalk.
Wrong direction, Mom, I thought.
She released the kite. It rose a foot or two, wagged naughtily from side to
side, then took a dive into the sand. The breeze kicked up and it went
skittering. She had to chase it down.
“Once more!” Mike called. “That time—” Cough-cough-cough, harsh
and bronchial. “That time you almost had it!”
“No, I didn’t.” She sounded tired and pissed off. “God-damned thing
hates me. Let’s go in and get some sup—”
Milo was sitting beside Mike’s wheelchair, watching the evening’s
activities with bright eyes. When he saw me, he was off like a shot, barking.
As I watched him come, I remembered Madame Fortuna’s pronouncement
on the day I first met her: In your future is a little girl and a little boy. The
boy has a dog.

“Milo, come back!” Mom shouted. Her hair had probably started that
evening tied up, but after several experiments in aviation, it hung around
her face in strings. She pushed it away wearily with the backs of her hands.
Milo paid no attention. He skidded to a stop in front of me with his front
paws spraying sand, and did his sitting-up thing. I laughed and patted his
head. “That’s all you get, pal—no croissants tonight.”
He barked at me once, then trotted back to Mom, who was standing
ankle-deep in the sand, breathing hard and eyeing me with mistrust. The
captured kite hung down by her leg.
“See?” she said. “That’s why I didn’t want you to feed him. He’s a
terrible beggar, and he thinks anybody who gives him a scrap is his friend.”
“Well, I’m a friendly sort of guy.”
“Good to know,” she said. “Just don’t feed our dog anymore.” She was
wearing pedal pushers and an old blue tee-shirt with faded printing on the
front. Judging from the sweat-stains on it, she had been trying to get the kite
airborne for quite some time. Trying hard, and why not? If I had a kid stuck
in a wheelchair, I’d probably want to give him something that would fly,
too.
“You’re going the wrong way with that thing,” I said. “And you don’t
need to run with it, anyway. I don’t know why everybody thinks that.”
“I’m sure you’re quite the expert,” she said, “but it’s late and I have to
get Mike his supper.”
“Mom, let him try,” Mike said. “Please?”
She stood for a few more seconds with her head lowered and escaped
locks of her hair—also sweaty—clumped against her neck. Then she sighed
and held the kite out to me. Now I could read the printing on her shirt: CAMP
PERRY MATCH COMPETITION (PRONE) 1959. The front of the kite was a lot
better, and I had to laugh. It was the face of Jesus.
“Private joke,” she said. “Don’t ask.”
“Okay.”
“You get one try, Mr. Joyland, and then I’m taking him in for his supper.
He can’t get chilled. He was sick last year, and he still hasn’t gotten over it.
He thinks he has, but he hasn’t.”
It was still at least seventy-five on the beach, but I didn’t point this out;
Mom was clearly not in the mood for further contradictions. Instead I told

her again that my name was Devin Jones. She raised her hands and then let
them flop: Whatever you say, bub.
I looked at the boy. “Mike?”
“Yes?”
“Reel in the string. I’ll tell you when to stop.”
He did as I asked. I followed, and when I was even with where he sat, I
looked at Jesus. “Are you going to fly this time, Mr. Christ?”
Mike laughed. Mom didn’t, but I thought I saw her lips twitch.
“He says he is,” I told Mike.
“Good, because—” Cough. Cough-cough-cough. She was right, he
wasn’t over it. Whatever it was. “Because so far he hasn’t done anything
but eat sand.”
I held the kite over my head, but facing Heaven’s Bay. I could feel the
wind tug at it right away. The plastic rippled. “I’m going to let go, Mike.
When I do, start reeling in the string again.”
“But it’ll just—”
“No, it won’t just. But you have to be quick and careful.” I was making it
sound harder than it was, because I wanted him to feel cool and capable
when the kite went up. It would, too, as long as the breeze didn’t die on us.
I really hoped that wouldn’t happen, because I thought Mom had meant
what she said about me getting only one chance. “The kite will rise. When
it does, start paying out the twine again. Just keep it taut, okay? That means
if it starts to dip, you—”
“I pull it in some more. I get it. God’s sake.”
“Okay. Ready?”
“Yeah!”
Milo sat between Mom and me, looking up at the kite.
“Okay, then. Three…two…one…lift-off.”
The kid was hunched over in his chair and the legs beneath his shorts
were wasted, but there was nothing wrong with his hands and he knew how
to follow orders. He started reeling in, and the kite rose at once. He began
to pay the string out—at first too much, and the kite sagged, but he
corrected and it started going up again. He laughed. “I can feel it! I can feel
it in my hands!”
“That’s the wind you feel,” I said. “Keep going, Mike. Once it gets up a
little higher, the wind will own it. Then all you have to do is not let go.”

He let out the twine and the kite climbed, first over the beach and then
above the ocean, riding higher and higher into that September day’s late
blue. I watched it awhile, then chanced looking at the woman. She didn’t
bristle at my gaze, because she didn’t see it. All her attention was focused
on her son. I don’t think I ever saw such love and such happiness on a
person’s face. Because he was happy. His eyes were shining and the
coughing had stopped.
“Mommy, it feels like it’s alive!”
It is, I thought, remembering how my father had taught me to fly a kite in
the town park. I had been Mike’s age, but with good legs to stand on. As
long as it’s up there, where it was made to be, it really is.
“Come and feel it!”
She walked up the little slope of beach to the boardwalk and stood beside
him. She was looking at the kite, but her hand was stroking his cap of dark
brown hair. “Are you sure, honey? It’s your kite.”
“Yeah, but you have to try it. It’s incredible!”
She took the reel, which had thinned considerably as the twine paid out
and the kite rose (it was now just a black diamond, the face of Jesus no
longer visible) and held it in front of her. For a moment she looked
apprehensive. Then she smiled. When a gust tugged the kite, making it wag
first to port and then to starboard above the incoming waves, the smile
widened into a grin.
After she’d flown it for a while, Mike said: “Let him.”
“No, that’s okay,” I said.
But she held out the reel. “We insist, Mr. Jones. You’re the flightmaster,
after all.”
So I took the twine, and felt the old familiar thrill. It tugged the way a
fishing-line does when a fair-sized trout has taken the hook, but the nice
thing about kite-flying is nothing gets killed.
“How high will it go?” Mike asked.
“I don’t know, but maybe it shouldn’t go much higher tonight. The wind
up there is stronger, and might rip it. Also, you guys need to eat.”
“Can Mr. Jones eat supper with us, Mom?”
She looked startled at the idea, and not in a good way. Still, I saw she was
going to agree because I’d gotten the kite up.

“That’s okay,” I said. “I appreciate the invitation, but it was quite a day at
the park. We’re battening down the hatches for winter, and I’m dirt from
head to toe.”
“You can wash up in the house,” Mike said. “We’ve got, like, seventy
bathrooms.”
“Michael Ross, we do not!”
“Maybe seventy-five, with a Jacuzzi in each one.” He started laughing. It
was a lovely, infectious sound, at least until it turned to coughing. The
coughing became whooping. Then, just as Mom was starting to look really
concerned (I was already there), he got it under control.
“Another time,” I said, and handed him the reel of twine. “I love your
Christ-kite. Your dog ain’t bad, either.” I bent and patted Milo’s head.
“Oh…okay. Another time. But don’t wait too long, because—”
Mom interposed hastily. “Can you go to work a little earlier tomorrow,
Mr. Jones?”
“Sure, I guess.”
“We could have fruit smoothies right here, if the weather’s nice. I make a
mean fruit smoothie.”
I bet she did. And that way, she wouldn’t have to have a strange man in
the house.
“Will you?” Mike asked. “That’d be cool.”
“I’d love to. I’ll bring a bag of pastries from Betty’s.”
“Oh, you don’t have to—” she began.
“My pleasure, ma’am.”
“Oh!” She looked startled. “I never introduced myself, did I? I’m Ann
Ross.” She held out her hand.
“I’d shake it, Mrs. Ross, but I really am filthy.” I showed her my hands.
“It’s probably on the kite, too.”
“You should have given Jesus a mustache!” Mike shouted, and then
laughed himself into another coughing fit.
“You’re getting a little loose with the twine there, Mike,” I said. “Better
reel it in.” And, as he started doing it, I gave Milo a farewell pat and started
back down the beach.
“Mr. Jones,” she called.
I turned back. She was standing straight, with her chin raised. Sweat had
molded the shirt to her, and she had great breasts.

“It’s Miss Ross. But since I guess we’ve now been properly introduced,
why don’t you call me Annie?”
“I can do that.” I pointed at her shirt. “What’s a match competition? And
why is it prone?”
“That’s when you shoot lying down,” Mike said.
“Haven’t done it in ages,” she said, in a curt tone that suggested she
wanted the subject closed.
Fine with me. I tipped Mike a wave and he sent one right back. He was
grinning. Kid had a great grin.
Forty or fifty yards down the beach, I turned around for another look.
The kite was descending, but for the time being the wind still owned it.
They were looking up at it, the woman with her hand on her son’s shoulder.
Miss, I thought. Miss, not Mrs. And is there a mister with them in the big
old Victorian with the seventy bathrooms? Just because I’d never seen one
with them didn’t mean there wasn’t one, but I didn’t think so. I thought it
was just the two of them. On their own.
***
I got no clarification from Annie Ross the next morning, but plenty of dish
from Mike. I also got one hell of a nice fruit smoothie. She said she made
the yogurt herself, and it was layered with fresh strawberries from God
knows where. I brought croissants and blueberry muffins from Betty’s
Bakery. Mike skipped the pastries, but finished his smoothie and asked for
another. From the way his mother’s mouth dropped open, I gathered that
this was an astounding development. But not, I guessed, in a bad way.
“Are you sure you can eat another one?”
“Maybe just half,” he said. “What’s the deal, Mom? You’re the one who
says fresh yogurt helps me move my bowels.”
“I don’t think we need to discuss your bowels at seven in the morning,
Mike.” She got up, then cast a doubtful glance my way.
“Don’t worry,” Mike said brightly, “if he tries to kiddie-fiddle me, I’ll tell
Milo to sic ’im.”
Color bloomed in her cheeks. “Michael Everett Ross!”
“Sorry,” he said. He didn’t look sorry. His eyes were sparkling.
“Don’t apologize to me, apologize to Mr. Jones.”

“Accepted, accepted.”
“Will you keep an eye on him, Mr. Jones? I won’t be long.”
“I will if you’ll call me Devin.”
“Then I’ll do that.” She hurried up the boardwalk, pausing once to look
over her shoulder. I think she had more than half a mind to come back, but
in the end, the prospect of stuffing a few more healthy calories into her
painfully thin boy was too much for her to resist, and she went on.
Mike watched her climb the steps to the back patio and sighed. “Now I’ll
have to eat it.”
“Well…yeah. You asked for it, right?”
“Only so I could talk to you without her butting in. I mean, I love her and
all, but she’s always butting in. Like what’s wrong with me is this big
shameful secret we have to keep.” He shrugged. “I’ve got muscular
dystrophy, that’s all. That’s why I’m in the wheelchair. I can walk, you
know, but the braces and crutches are a pain in the butt.”
“I’m sorry,” I said. “That stinks, Mike.”
“I guess, but I can’t remember not having it, so what the hell. Only it’s a
special kind of MD. Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy, it’s called. Most kids
who have it croak in their teens or early twenties.”
So, you tell me—what do you say to a ten-year-old kid who’s just told
you he’s living under a death sentence?
“But.” He raised a teacherly finger. “Remember her talking about how I
was sick last year?”
“Mike, you don’t have to tell me all this if you don’t want to.”
“Yeah, except I do.” He was looking at me with clear intensity. Maybe
even urgency. “Because you want to know. Maybe you even need to know.”
I was thinking of Fortuna again. Two children, she had told me, a girl in a
red hat and a boy with a dog. She said one of them had the sight, but she
didn’t know which. I thought that now I did.
“Mom said I think I got over it. Do I sound like I got over it?”
“Nasty cough,” I ventured, “but otherwise…” I couldn’t think how to
finish. Otherwise your legs are nothing but sticks? Otherwise you look like
your mom and I could tie a string to the back of your shirt and fly you like a
kite? Otherwise if I had to bet on whether you or Milo would live longer, I’d
put my money on the dog?

“I came down with pneumonia just after Thanksgiving, okay? When I
didn’t improve after a couple of weeks in the hospital, the doctor told my
mom I was probably going to die and she ought to, you know, get ready for
that.”
But he didn’t tell her in your hearing, I thought. They’d never have a
conversation like that in your hearing.
“I hung in, though.” He said this with some pride. “My grandfather called
my mom—I think it was the first time they’d talked in a long time. I don’t
know who told him what was going on, but he has people everywhere. It
could have been any of them.”
People everywhere sounded kind of paranoid, but I kept my mouth shut.
Later I found out it wasn’t paranoid at all. Mike’s grandfather did have them
everywhere, and they all saluted Jesus, the flag, and the NRA, although
possibly not in that order.
“Grampa said I got over the pneumonia because of God’s will. Mom said
he was full of bullshit, just like when he said me having DMD in the first
place was God’s punishment. She said I was just one tough little
sonofabitch, and God had nothing to do with it. Then she hung up on him.”
Mike might have heard her end of that conversation, but not Grampa’s,
and I doubted like hell if his mother had told him. I didn’t think he was
making it up, though. I found myself hoping Annie wouldn’t hurry back.
This wasn’t like listening to Madame Fortuna. What she had, I believed
(and still do, all these years later), was some small bit of authentic psychic
ability amped up by a shrewd understanding of human nature and then
packaged in glittering carny bullshit. Mike’s thing was clearer. Simpler.
Purer. It wasn’t like seeing the ghost of Linda Gray, but it was akin to that,
okay? It was touching another world.
“Mom said she’d never come back here, but here we are. Because I
wanted to come to the beach and because I wanted to fly a kite and because
I’m never going to make twelve, let alone my early twenties. It was the
pneumonia, see? I get steroids, and they help, but the pneumonia combined
with the Duchenne’s MD fucked up my lungs and heart permanently.”
He looked at me with a child’s defiance, watching for how I’d react to
what is now so coyly referred to as “the f-bomb.” I didn’t react, of course. I
was too busy processing the sense to worry about his choice of words.

“So,” I said. “I guess what you’re saying is an extra fruit smoothie won’t
help.”
He threw back his head and laughed. The laughter turned into the worst
coughing fit yet. Alarmed, I went to him and pounded his back…but gently.
It felt as if there were nothing under there but chicken bones. Milo barked
once and put his paws up on one of Mike’s wasted legs.
There were two pitchers on the table, water in one and fresh-squeezed
orange juice in the other. Mike pointed to the water and I poured him half a
glass. When I tried to hold it for him, he gave me an impatient look—even
with the coughing fit still wracking him—and took it himself. He spilled
some on his shirt, but most of it went down his throat, and the coughing
eased.
“That was a bad one,” he said, patting his chest. “My heart’s going like a
bastard. Don’t tell my mother.”
“Jesus, kid! Like she doesn’t know?”
“She knows too much, that’s what I think,” Mike said. “She knows I
might have three more good months and then four or five really bad ones.
Like, in bed all the time, not able to do anything but suck oxygen and watch
MASH and Fat Albert. The only question is whether or not she’ll let
Grammy and Grampa Ross come to the funeral.” He’d coughed hard
enough to make his eyes water, but I didn’t mistake that for tears. He was
bleak, but in control. Last evening, when the kite went up and he felt it
tugging the twine, he had been younger than his age. Now I was watching
him struggle to be a lot older. The scary thing was how well he was
succeeding. His eyes met mine, dead-on. “She knows. She just doesn’t
know that I know.”
The back door banged. We looked and saw Annie crossing the patio,
heading for the boardwalk.
“Why would I need to know, Mike?”
He shook his head. “I don’t have any idea. But you can’t talk about it to
Mom, okay? It just upsets her. I’m all she’s got.” He said this last not with
pride but a kind of gloomy realism.
“All right.”
“Oh, one other thing. I almost forgot.” He shot a glance at her, saw she
was only halfway down the boardwalk, and turned back to me. “It’s not
white.”

“What’s not white?”
Mike Ross looked mystified. “No idea. When I woke up this morning, I
remembered you were coming for smoothies, and that came into my head. I
thought you’d know.”
Annie arrived. She had poured a mini-smoothie into a juice glass. On top
was a single strawberry.
“Yum!” Mike said. “Thanks, Mom!”
“You’re very welcome, hon.”
She eyed his wet shirt but didn’t mention it. When she asked me if I
wanted some more juice, Mike winked at me. I said more juice would be
great. While she poured, Mike fed Milo two heaping spoonfuls of his
smoothie.
She turned back to him, and looked at the smoothie glass, now half
empty. “Wow, you really were hungry.”
“Told you.”
“What were you and Mr. Jones—Devin—talking about?”
“Nothing much,” Mike said. “He’s been sad, but he’s better now.”
I said nothing, but I could feel heat rising in my cheeks. When I dared a
look at Annie, she was smiling.
“Welcome to Mike’s world, Devin,” she said, and I must have looked like
I’d swallowed a goldfish, because she burst out laughing. It was a nice
sound.
***
That evening when I walked back from Joyland, she was standing at the end
of the boardwalk, waiting for me. It was the first time I’d seen her in a
blouse and skirt. And she was alone. That was a first, too.
“Devin? Got a second?”
“Sure,” I said, angling up the sandy slope to her. “Where’s Mike?”
“He has physical therapy three times a week. Usually Janice—she’s his
therapist—comes in the morning, but I arranged for her to come this
evening instead, because I wanted to speak to you alone.”
“Does Mike know that?”
Annie smiled ruefully. “Probably. Mike knows far more than he should. I
won’t ask what you two talked about after he got rid of me this morning,

but I’m guessing that his…insights…come as no surprise to you.”
“He told me why he’s in a wheelchair, that’s all. And he mentioned he
had pneumonia last Thanksgiving.”
“I wanted to thank you for the kite, Dev. My son has very restless nights.
He’s not in pain, exactly, but he has trouble breathing when he’s asleep. It’s
like apnea. He has to sleep in a semi-sitting position, and that doesn’t help.
Sometimes he stops breathing completely, and when he does, an alarm goes
off and wakes him up. Only last night—after the kite—he slept right
through. I even went in once, around two AM, to make sure the monitor
wasn’t malfunctioning. He was sleeping like a baby. No restless tossing and
turning, no nightmares—he’s prone to them—and no moaning. It was the
kite. It satisfied him in a way nothing else possibly could. Except maybe
going to that damned amusement park of yours, which is completely out of
the question.” She stopped, then smiled. “Oh, shit. I’m making a speech.”
“It’s all right,” I said.
“It’s just that I’ve had so few people to talk to. I have housekeeping help
—a very nice woman from Heaven’s Bay—and of course there’s Janice, but
it’s not the same.” She took a deep breath. “Here’s the other part. I was rude
to you on several occasions, and with no cause. I’m sorry.”
“Mrs.…Miss…” Shit. “Annie, you don’t have anything to apologize for.”
“Yes. I do. You could have just walked on when you saw me struggling
with the kite, and then Mike wouldn’t have gotten that good night’s rest. All
I can say is that I have problems trusting people.”
This is where she invites me in for supper, I thought. But she didn’t.
Maybe because of what I said next.
“You know, he could come to the park. It’d be easy to arrange, and with
it closed and all, he could have the run of the place.”
Her face closed up hard, like a hand into a fist. “Oh, no. Absolutely not.
If you think that, he didn’t tell you as much about his condition as I thought
he did. Please don’t mention it to him. In fact, I have to insist.”
“All right,” I said. “But if you change your mind…”
I trailed off. She wasn’t going to change her mind. She looked at her
watch, and a new smile lit her face. It was so brilliant you could almost
overlook how it never reached her eyes. “Oh boy, look how late it’s getting.

Mike will be hungry after his PE, and I haven’t done a thing about supper.
Will you excuse me?”
“Sure.”
I stood there watching her hurry back down the boardwalk to the green
Victorian—the one I was probably never going to see the inside of, thanks
to my big mouth. But the idea of taking Mike through Joyland had seemed
so right. During the summer, we had groups of kids with all sorts of
problems and disabilities—crippled kids, blind kids, cancer kids, kids who
were mentally challenged (what we called retarded back in the
unenlightened seventies). It wasn’t as though I expected to stick Mike in the
front car of the Delirium Shaker and then blast him off. Even if the Shaker
hadn’t been buttoned up for the winter, I’m not a total idiot.
But the merry-go-round was still operational, and surely he could ride
that. Ditto the train that ran through the Wiggle-Waggle Village. I was sure
Fred Dean wouldn’t mind me touring the kid through Mysterio’s Mirror
Mansion, either. But no. No. He was her delicate hothouse flower, and she
intended to keep it that way. The thing with the kite had just been an
aberration, and the apology a bitter pill she felt she had to swallow.
Still, I couldn’t help admiring how quick and lithe she was, moving with
a grace her son would never know. I watched her bare legs under the hem of
her skirt and thought about Wendy Keegan not at all.
***
I had the weekend free, and you know what happened. I guess the idea that
it always rains on the weekends must be an illusion, but it sure doesn’t seem
like one; ask any working stiff who ever planned to go camping or fishing
on his days off.
Well, there was always Tolkien. I was sitting in my chair by the window
on Saturday afternoon, moving ever deeper into the mountains of Mordor
with Frodo and Sam, when Mrs. Shoplaw knocked on the door and asked if
I’d like to come down to the parlor and play Scrabble with her and Tina
Ackerley. I am not at all crazy about Scrabble, having suffered many
humiliations at the hands of my aunts Tansy and Naomi, who each have a
huge mental vocabulary of what I still think of as “Scrabble shit-words”—
stuff like suq, tranq, and bhoot (an Indian ghost, should you wonder).

Nevertheless, I said I’d love to play. Mrs. Shoplaw was my landlady, after
all, and diplomacy takes many forms.
On our way downstairs, she confided, “We’re helping Tina bone up.
She’s quite the Scrabble-shark. She’s entered in some sort of tournament in
Atlantic City next weekend. I believe there is a cash prize.”
It didn’t take long—maybe four turns—to discover that our resident
librarian could have given my aunts all the game they could handle, and
more. By the time Miss Ackerley laid down nubility (with the apologetic
smile all Scrabble-sharks seem to have; I think they must practice it in front
of their mirrors), Emmalina Shoplaw was eighty points behind. As for me…
well, never mind.
“I don’t suppose either of you know anything about Annie and Mike
Ross, do you?” I asked during a break in the action (both women seemed to
feel a need to study the board a looong time before laying down so much as
a single tile). “They live on Beach Row in the big green Victorian?”
Miss Ackerley paused with her hand still inside the little brown bag of
letters. Her eyes were big, and her thick lenses made them even bigger.
“Have you met them?”
“Uh-huh. They were trying to fly a kite…well, she was…and I helped
out a little. They’re very nice. I just wondered…the two of them all alone in
that big house, and him pretty sick…”
The look they exchanged was pure incredulity, and I started to wish I
hadn’t raised the subject.
“She talks to you?” Mrs. Shoplaw asked. “The Ice Queen actually talks
to you?”
Not only talked to me, but gave me a fruit smoothie. Thanked me. Even
apologized to me. But I said none of that. Not because Annie really had iced
up when I presumed too much, but because to do so would have seemed
disloyal, somehow.
“Well, a little. I got the kite up for them, that’s all.” I turned the board. It
was Tina’s, the pro kind with its own little built-in spindle. “Come on, Mrs.
S. Your turn. Maybe you’ll even make a word that’s in my puny
vocabulary.”
“Given the correct positioning, puny can be worth seventy points,” Tina
Ackerley said. “Even more, if a y-word is connected to pun.”

Mrs. Shoplaw ignored both the board and the advice. “You know who her
father is, of course.”
“Can’t say I do.” Although I did know she was on the outs with him, and
big-time.
“Buddy Ross? As in The Buddy Ross Hour of Power? Ring any bells?”
It did, vaguely. I thought I might have heard some preacher named Ross
on the radio in the costume shop. It kind of made sense. During one of my
quick-change transformations into Howie, Dottie Lassen had asked me—
pretty much out of a clear blue sky—if I had found Jesus. My first impulse
had been to tell her that I didn’t know He was lost, but I restrained it.
“One of those Bible-shouters, right?”
“Next to Oral Roberts and that Jimmy Swaggart fellow, he’s just about
the biggest of them,” Mrs. S. said. “He broadcasts from this gigantic church
—God’s Citadel, he calls it—in Atlanta. His radio show goes out all over
the country, and now he’s getting more and more into TV. I don’t know if
the stations give him the time free, or if he has to buy it. I’m sure he can
afford it, especially late at night. That’s when the old folks are up with their
aches and pains. His shows are half miracle healings and half pleas for
more love-offerings.”
“Guess he didn’t have any luck healing his grandson,” I said.
Tina withdrew her hand from the letter-bag with nothing in it. She had
forgotten about Scrabble for the time being, which was a good thing for her
hapless victims. Her eyes were sparkling. “You don’t know any of this
story, do you? Ordinarily I don’t believe in gossip, but…” She dropped her
voice to a confidential tone pitched just above a whisper. “…but since
you’ve met them, I could tell you.”
“Yes, please,” I said. I thought one of my questions—how Annie and
Mike came to be living in a huge house on one of North Carolina’s ritziest
beaches—had already been answered. It was Grampa Buddy’s summer
retreat, bought and paid for with love-offerings.
“He’s got two sons,” Tina said. “They’re both high in his church—
deacons or assistant pastors, I don’t know what they call them exactly,
because I don’t go for that holy rolling stuff. The daughter, though, she was
different. A sporty type. Horseback riding, tennis, archery, deer hunting
with her father, quite a bit of competition shooting. All that got in the
papers after her trouble started.”

Now the CAMP PERRY shirt made sense.
“Around the time she turned eighteen, it all went to hell—quite literally,
as he saw it. She went to what they call ‘a secular-humanist college,’ and by
all accounts she was quite the wild child. Giving up the shooting
competitions and tennis tournaments was one thing; giving up the churchgoing for parties and liquor and men was quite another. Also…” Tina
lowered her voice. “Pot-smoking.”
“Gosh,” I said, “not that!”
Mrs. Shoplaw gave me a look, but Tina didn’t notice. “Yes! That! She got
into the newspapers, too, those tabloids, because she was pretty and rich,
but mostly because of her father. And being fallen-away. That’s what they
call it. She was a scandal to that church of his, wearing mini-skirts and
going braless and all. Well, you know what those fundamentalists preach is
straight out of the Old Testament, all that about the righteous being
rewarded and sinners being punished even unto the seventh generation. And
she did more than hit the party circuit down there in Green Witch Village.”
Tina’s eyes were now so huge they looked on the verge of tumbling from
their sockets and rolling down her cheeks. “She quit the NRA and joined the
American Atheist Society!”
“Ah. And did that get in the papers?”
“Did it ever! Then she got pregnant, no surprise there, and when the baby
turned out to have some sort of problem…cerebral palsy, I think—”
“Muscular dystrophy.”
“Whatever it is, her father was asked about it on one of his crusade
things, and do you know what he said?”
I shook my head, but thought I could make a pretty good guess.
“He said that God punishes the unbeliever and the sinner. He said his
daughter was no different, and maybe her son’s affliction would bring her
back to God.”
“I don’t think it’s happened yet,” I said. I was thinking of the Jesus-kite.
“I can’t understand why people use religion to hurt each other when
there’s already so much pain in the world,” Mrs. Shoplaw said. “Religion is
supposed to comfort.”
“He’s just a self-righteous old prig,” Tina said. “No matter how many
men she might have been with or how many joints of pot she might have

smoked, she’s still his daughter. And the child is still his grandson. I’ve
seen that boy in town once or twice, either in a wheelchair or tottering along
in those cruel braces he has to wear if he wants to walk. He seems like a
perfectly nice boy, and she was sober. Also wearing a bra.” She paused for
further recollection. “I think.”
“Her father might change,” Mrs. Shoplaw said, “but I doubt it. Young
women and young men grow up, but old women and old men just grow
older and surer they’ve got the right on their side. Especially if they know
scripture.”
I remembered something my mother used to say. “The devil can quote
scripture.”
“And in a pleasing voice,” Mrs. Shoplaw agreed moodily. Then she
brightened. “Still, if the Reverend Ross is letting them use his place on
Beach Row, maybe he’s willing to let bygones be bygones. It might have
crossed his mind by now that she was only a young girl, maybe not even
old enough to vote. Dev, isn’t it your turn?”
It was. I made tear. It netted me four points.
***
My drubbing wasn’t merciful, but once Tina Ackerley really got rocking, it
was relatively quick. I returned to my room, sat in my chair by the window,
and tried to rejoin Frodo and Sam on the road to Mount Doom. I couldn’t
do it. I closed the book and stared out through the rain-wavery glass at the
empty beach and the gray ocean beyond. It was a lonely prospect, and at
times like that, my thoughts had a way of turning back to Wendy—
wondering where she was, what she was doing, and who she was with.
Thinking about her smile, the way her hair fell against her cheek, the soft
rise of her breasts in one of her seemingly endless supply of cardigan
sweaters.
Not today. Instead of Wendy, I found myself thinking of Annie Ross and
realizing I’d developed a small but powerful crush on her. The fact that
nothing could come of it—she had to be ten years older than me, maybe
twelve—only seemed to make things worse. Or maybe I mean better,
because unrequited love does have its attractions for young men.

Mrs. S. had suggested that Annie’s holier-than-thou father might be
willing to let bygones be bygones, and I thought she might have something
there. I’d heard that grandchildren had a way of softening stiff necks, and
he might want to get to know the boy while there was still time. He could
have found out (from the people he had everywhere) that Mike was smart as
well as crippled. It was even possible he’d heard rumors that Mike had what
Madame Fortuna called “the sight.” Or maybe all that was too rosy. Maybe
Mr. Fire-and-Brimstone had given her the use of the house in exchange for
a promise that she’d keep her mouth shut and not brew up any fresh potand-miniskirt scandals while he was making the crucial transition from
radio to television.
I could speculate until the cloud-masked sun went down, and not be sure
of anything on Buddy Ross’s account, but I thought I could be sure about
one thing on Annie’s: she was not ready to let bygones be bygones.
I got up and trotted downstairs to the parlor, fishing a scrap of paper with
a phone number on it out of my wallet as I went. I could hear Tina and Mrs.
S. in the kitchen, chattering away happily. I called Erin Cook’s dorm, not
expecting to get her on a Saturday afternoon; she was probably down in
New Jersey with Tom, watching Rutgers football and singing the Scarlet
Knights’ fight song.
But the girl on phone duty said she’d get her, and three minutes later, her
voice was in my ear.
“Dev, I was going to call you. In fact, I want to come down and see you,
if I can get Tom to go along. I think I can, but it wouldn’t be next weekend.
Probably the one after.”
I checked the calendar hanging on the wall and saw that would be the
first weekend in October. “Have you actually found something out?”
“I don’t know. Maybe. I love to do research, and I really got into this.
I’ve piled up lots of background stuff for sure, but it’s not like I solved the
murder of Linda Gray in the college library, or anything. Still…there are
things I want to show you. Things that trouble me.”
“Trouble you why? Trouble you how?”
“I don’t want to try explaining over the phone. If I can’t persuade Tom to
come down, I’ll put everything in a big manila envelope and send it to you.
But I think I can. He wants to see you, he just doesn’t want anything to do
with my little investigation. He wouldn’t even look at the photos.”

I thought she was being awfully mysterious, but decided to let it go.
“Listen, have you heard of an evangelist named Buddy Ross?”
“Buddy—” She burst into giggles. “The Buddy Ross Hour of Power! My
gramma listens to that old faker all the time! He pretends to pull goat
stomachs out of people and claims they’re tumors! Do you know what Pop
Allen would say?”
“Carny-from-carny,” I said, grinning.
“Right you are. What do you want to know about him? And why can’t
you find out for yourself? Did your mother get scared by a card catalogue
while she was carrying you?”
“Not that I know of, but by the time I get off work, the Heaven’s Bay
library is closed. I doubt if they’ve got Who’s Who, anyway. I mean, it’s
only one room. It’s not about him, anyway. It’s about his two sons. I want to
know if they have any kids.”
“Why?”
“Because his daughter has one. He’s a great kid, but he’s dying.”
A pause. Then: “What are you into down there now, Dev?”
“Meeting new people. Come on down. I’d love to see you guys again.
Tell Tom we’ll stay out of the funhouse.”
I thought that might make her laugh, but it didn’t. “Oh, he will. You
couldn’t get him within thirty yards of the place.”
We said our goodbyes, I wrote the length of my call on the honor sheet,
then went back upstairs and sat by the window. I was feeling that strange
dull jealousy again. Why had Tom Kennedy been the one to see Linda
Gray? Why him and not me?
***
The Heaven’s Bay weekly paper came out on Thursdays, and the headline
on the October fourth edition read JOYLAND EMPLOYEE SAVES SECOND LIFE. I
thought that was an exaggeration. I’ll take full credit for Hallie Stansfield,
but only part of it for the unpleasant Eddie Parks. The rest—not neglecting
a tip of the old Howie-hat to Lane Hardy—belongs to Wendy Keegan,
because if she hadn’t broken up with me in June, I would have been in
Durham, New Hampshire that fall, seven hundred miles from Joyland.

I certainly had no idea that more life-saving was on the agenda;
premonitions like that were strictly for folks like Rozzie Gold and Mike
Ross. I was thinking of nothing but Erin and Tom’s upcoming visit when I
arrived at the park on October first, after another rainy weekend. It was still
cloudy, but in honor of Monday, the rain had stopped. Eddie was seated on
his apple-box throne in front of Horror House, and smoking his usual
morning cigarette. I raised my hand to him. He didn’t bother to raise his in
return, just stomped on his butt and leaned over to raise the apple-box and
toss it under. I’d seen it all fifty times or more (and sometimes wondered
how many butts were piled up beneath that box), but this time, instead of
lifting the apple-box, he just went right on leaning.
Was there a look of surprise on his face? I can’t say. By the time I
realized something was wrong, all I could see was his faded and greasesmeared dogtop as his head dropped between his knees. He kept going
forward, and ended up doing a complete somersault, landing on his back
with his legs splayed out and his face up to the cloudy sky. And by then the
only thing on it was a knotted grimace of pain.
I dropped my lunchsack, ran to him, and fell on my knees beside him.
“Eddie? What is it?”
“Ticka,” he managed.
For a moment I thought he was talking about some obscure disease
engendered by tick-bites, but then I saw the way he was clutching the left
side of his chest with his gloved right hand.
The pre-Joyland version of Dev Jones would simply have yelled for help,
but after four months of talking the Talk, help never even crossed my mind.
I filled my lungs, lifted my head, and screamed “HEY, RUBE!” into the
damp morning air as loud as I could. The only person close enough to hear
was Lane Hardy, and he came fast.
The summer employees Fred Dean hired didn’t have to know CPR when
they signed on, but they had to learn. Thanks to the life-saving class I’d
taken as a teenager, I already knew. The half-dozen of us in that class had
learned beside the YMCA pool, working on a dummy with the unlikely
name of Herkimer Saltfish. Now I had a chance to put theory into practice
for the first time, and do you know what? It wasn’t really that much
different from the clean-and-jerk I’d used to pop the hotdog out of the little
Stansfield girl’s throat. I wasn’t wearing the fur, and there was no hugging

involved, but it was still mostly a matter of applying hard force. I cracked
four of the old bastard’s ribs and broke one. I can’t say I’m sorry, either.
By the time Lane arrived, I was kneeling alongside Eddie and doing
closed chest compressions, first rocking forward with my weight on the
heels of my hands, then rocking back and listening to see if he’d draw in a
breath.
“Christ,” Lane said. “Heart attack?”
“Yeah, I’m pretty sure. Call an ambulance.”
The closest phone was in the little shack beside Pop Allen’s Shootin’
Gallery—his doghouse, in the Talk. It was locked, but Lane had the Keys to
the Kingdom: three masters that opened everything in the park. He ran. I
went on doing CPR, rocking back and forth, my thighs aching now, my
knees barking about their long contact with the rough pavement of Joyland
Avenue. After each five compressions I’d slow-count to three, listening for
Eddie to inhale, but there was nothing. No joy in Joyland, not for Eddie.
Not after the first five, not after the second five, not after half a dozen fives.
He just lay there with his gloved hands at his sides and his mouth open.
Eddie fucking Parks. I stared down at him as Lane came sprinting back,
shouting that the ambulance was on its way.
I’m not doing it, I thought. I’ll be damned if I’ll do it.
Then I leaned forward, doing another compression on the way, and
pressed my mouth to his. It wasn’t as bad as I feared; it was worse. His lips
were bitter with the taste of cigarettes, and there was the stink of something
else in his mouth—God help me, I think it was jalapeno peppers, maybe
from a breakfast omelet. I got a good seal, though, pinched his nostrils shut,
and breathed down his throat.
I did that five or six times before he started breathing on his own again. I
stopped the compressions to see what would happen, and he kept going.
Hell must have been full that day, that’s all I can figure. I rolled him onto
his side in case he vomited. Lane stood beside me with a hand on my
shoulder. Shortly after that, we heard the wail of an approaching siren.
Lane hurried to meet them at the gate and direct them. Once he was gone,
I found myself looking at the snarling green monster-faces decorating the
façade of Horror House. COME IN IF YOU DARE was written above the faces in
drippy green letters. I found myself thinking again of Linda Gray, who had

gone in alive and had been carried out hours later, cold and dead. I think my
mind went that way because Erin was coming with information.
Information that troubled her. I also thought of the girl’s killer.
Could have been you, Mrs. Shoplaw had said. Except you’re dark-haired
instead of blond and don’t have a bird’s head tattooed on one of your hands.
This guy did. An eagle or maybe a hawk.
Eddie’s hair was the premature gray of the lifelong heavy smoker, but it
could have been blond four years ago. And he always wore gloves. Surely
he was too old to have been the man who had accompanied Linda Gray on
her last dark ride, surely, but…
The ambulance was very close but not quite here, although I could see
Lane at the gate, waving his hands over his head, making hurry-up gestures.
Thinking what the hell, I stripped off Eddie’s gloves. His fingers were lacy
with dead skin, the backs of his hands red beneath a thick layer of some sort
of white cream. There were no tattoos.
Just psoriasis.
***
As soon as he was loaded up and the ambulance was heading back to the
tiny Heaven’s Bay hospital, I went into the nearest donniker and rinsed my
mouth again and again. It was a long time before I got rid of the taste of
those damn jalapeno peppers, and I have never touched one since.
When I came out, Lane Hardy was standing by the door. “That was
something,” he said. “You brought him back.”
“He won’t be out of the woods for a while, and there might be brain
damage.”
“Maybe yes, maybe no, but if you hadn’t been there, he’d have been in
the woods permanently. First the little girl, now the dirty old man. I may
start calling you Jesus instead of Jonesy, because you sure are the savior.”
“You do that, and I’m DS.” That was Talk for down south, which in turn
meant turning in your time-card for good.
“Okay, but you did all right, Jonesy. In fact, I gotta say you rocked the
house.”
“The taste of him,” I said. “God!”

“Yeah, I bet, but look on the bright side. With him gone, you’re free at
last, free at last, thank God Almighty, you’re free at last. I think you’ll like
it better that way, don’t you?”
I certainly did.
From his back pocket, Lane drew out a pair of rawhide gloves. Eddie’s
gloves. “Found these laying on the ground. Why’d you take em off him?”
“Uh…I wanted to let his hands breathe.” That sounded primo stupid, but
the truth would have sounded even stupider. I couldn’t believe I’d
entertained the notion of Eddie Parks being Linda Gray’s killer for even a
moment. “When I took my life-saving course, they told us that heart attack
victims need all the free skin they can get. It helps, somehow.” I shrugged.
“It’s supposed to, at least.”
“Huh. You learn a new thing every day.” He flapped the gloves. “I don’t
think Eddie’s gonna be back for a long time—if at all—so you might as
well stick these in his doghouse, yeah?”
“Okay,” I said, and that’s what I did. But later that day I went and got
them again. Something else, too.
***
I didn’t like him, we’re straight on that, right? He’d given me no reason to
like him. He had, so far as I knew, given not one single Joyland employee a
reason to like him. Even old-timers like Rozzie Gold and Pop Allen gave
him a wide berth. Nevertheless, I found myself entering the Heaven’s Bay
Community Hospital that afternoon at four o’clock, and asking if Edward
Parks could have a visitor. I had his gloves in one hand, along with the
something else.
The blue-haired volunteer receptionist went through her paperwork
twice, shaking her head, and I was starting to think Eddie had died after all
when she said, “Ah! It’s Edwin, not Edward. He’s in Room 315. That’s
ICU, so you’ll have to check at the nurse’s station first.”
I thanked her and went to the elevator—one of those huge ones big
enough to admit a gurney. It was slower than old cold death, which gave me
plenty of time to wonder what I was doing here. If Eddie needed a visit
from a park employee, it should have been Fred Dean, not me, because Fred

was the guy in charge that fall. Yet here I was. They probably wouldn’t let
me see him, anyway.
But after checking his chart, the head nurse gave me the okay. “He may
be sleeping, though.”
“Any idea about his—?” I tapped my head.
“Mental function? Well…he was able to give us his name.”
That sounded hopeful.
He was indeed asleep. With his eyes shut and that day’s late-arriving sun
shining on his face, the idea that he might have been Linda Gray’s date a
mere four years ago was even more ludicrous. He looked at least a hundred,
maybe a hundred and twenty. I saw I needn’t have brought his gloves,
either. Someone had bandaged his hands, probably after treating the
psoriasis with something a little more powerful than whatever OTC cream
he’d been using on them. Looking at those bulky white mittens made me
feel a queer, reluctant pity.
I crossed the room as quietly as I could, and put the gloves in the closet
with the clothes he’d been wearing when he was brought in. That left me
with the other thing—a photograph that had been pinned to the wall of his
cluttered, tobacco-smelling little shack next to a yellowing calendar that
was two years out of date. The photo showed Eddie and a plain-faced
woman standing in the weedy front yard of an anonymous tract house.
Eddie looked about twenty-five. He had his arm around the woman. She
was smiling at him. And—wonder of wonders—he was smiling back.
There was a rolling table beside his bed with a plastic pitcher and a glass
on it. This I thought rather stupid; with his hands bandaged the way they
were, he wasn’t going to be pouring anything for a while. Still, the pitcher
could serve one useful purpose. I propped the photo against it so he’d see it
when he woke up. With that done, I started for the door.
I was almost there when he spoke in a whispery voice that was a long
way from his usual ill-tempered rasp. “Kiddo.”
I returned—not eagerly—to his bedside. There was a chair in the corner,
but I had no intention of pulling it over and sitting down. “How you feeling,
Eddie?”
“Can’t really say. Hard to breathe. They got me all taped up.”
“I brought you your gloves, but I see they already…” I nodded at his
bandaged hands.

“Yeah.” He sucked in air. “If anything good comes out of this, maybe
they’ll fix em up. Fuckin itch all the time, they do.” He looked at the
picture. “Why’d you bring that? And what were you doin in my doghouse?”
“Lane told me to put your gloves in there. I did, but then I thought you
might want them. And you might want the picture. Maybe she’s someone
you’d want Fred Dean to call?”
“Corinne?” He snorted. “She’s been dead for twenty years. Pour me some
water, kiddo. I’m as dry as ten-year dogshit.”
I poured, and held the glass for him, and even wiped the corner of his
mouth with the sheet when he dribbled. It was all a lot more intimate than I
wanted, but didn’t seem so bad when I remembered that I’d been soulkissing the miserable bastard only hours before.
He didn’t thank me, but when had he ever? What he said was, “Hold that
picture up.” I did as he asked. He looked at it fixedly for several seconds,
then sighed. “Miserable scolding backbiting cunt. Walking out on her for
Royal American Shows was the smartest thing I ever did.” A tear trembled
at the corner of his left eye, hesitated, then rolled down his cheek.
“Want me to take it back and pin it up in your doghouse, Eddie?”
“No, might as well leave it. We had a kid, you know. A little girl.”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah. She got hit by a car. Three years old she was, and died like a dog
in the street. That miserable cunt was yakking on the phone instead of
watching her.” He turned his head aside and closed his eyes. “Go on, get
outta here. Hurts to talk, and I’m tired. Got a elephant sitting on my chest.”
“Okay. Take care of yourself.”
He grimaced without opening his eyes. “That’s a laugh. How e’zacly am
I s’posed to do that? You got any ideas? Because I haven’t. I got no
relatives, no friends, no savings, no insurance. What am I gonna do now?”
“It’ll work out,” I said lamely.
“Sure, in the movies it always does. Go on, get lost.”
This time I was all the way out the door before he spoke again.
“You shoulda let me die, kiddo.” He said it without melodrama, just as a
passing observation. “I coulda been with my little girl.”
***

When I walked back into the hospital lobby I stopped dead, at first not sure
I was seeing who I thought I was seeing. But it was her, all right, with one
of her endless series of arduous novels open in front of her. This one was
called The Dissertation.
“Annie?”
She looked up, at first wary, then smiling as she recognized me. “Dev!
What are you doing here?”
“Visiting a guy from the park. He had a heart attack today.”
“Oh, my God, I’m so sorry. Is he going to be all right?”
She didn’t invite me to sit down next to her, but I did, anyway. My visit
to Eddie had upset me in ways I didn’t understand, and my nerves were
jangling. It wasn’t unhappiness and it wasn’t sorrow. It was a queer,
unfocused anger that had something to do with the foul taste of jalapeno
peppers that still seemed to linger in my mouth. And with Wendy, God
knew why. It was wearying to know I wasn’t over her, even yet. A broken
arm would have healed quicker. “I don’t know. I didn’t talk to a doctor. Is
Mike all right?”
“Yes, it’s just a regularly scheduled appointment. A chest X-ray and a
complete blood count. Because of the pneumonia, you know. Thank God
he’s over it now. Except for that lingering cough, Mike’s fine.” She was still
holding her book open, which probably meant she wanted me to go, and
that made me angrier. You have to remember that was the year everyone
wanted me to go, even the guy whose life I’d saved.
Which is probably why I said, “Mike doesn’t think he’s fine. So who am I
supposed to believe here, Annie?”
Her eyes widened with surprise, then grew distant. “I’m sure I don’t care
who or what you believe, Devin. It’s really not any of your business.”
“Yes it is.” That came from behind us. Mike had rolled up in his chair. It
wasn’t the motorized kind, which meant he’d been turning the wheels with
his hands. Strong boy, cough or no cough. He’d buttoned his shirt wrong,
though.
Annie turned to him, surprised. “What are you doing here? You were
supposed to let the nurse—”
“I told her I could do it on my own and she said okay. It’s just a left and
two rights from radiology, you know. I’m not blind, just dy—”

“Mr. Jones was visiting a friend of his, Mike.” So now I had been
demoted back to Mr. Jones. She closed her book with a snap and stood up.
“He’s probably anxious to get home, and I’m sure you must be ti—”
“I want him to take us to the park.” Mike spoke calmly enough, but his
voice was loud enough to make people look around. “Us.”
“Mike, you know that’s not—”
“To Joyland. To Joy…Land.” Still calm, but louder still. Now everyone
was looking. Annie’s cheeks were flaming. “I want you both to take me.”
His voice rose louder still. “I want you to take me to Joyland before I die.”
Her hand covered her mouth. Her eyes were huge. Her words, when they
came, were muffled but understandable. “Mike…you’re not going to die,
who told you…” She turned on me. “Do I have you to thank for putting that
idea in his head?”
“Of course not.” I was very conscious that our audience was growing—it
now included a couple of nurses and a doctor in blue scrubs and booties—
but I didn’t care. I was still angry. “He told me. Why would that surprise
you, when you know all about his intuitions?”
That was my afternoon for provoking tears. First Eddie, now Annie.
Mike was dry-eyed, though, and he looked every bit as furious as I felt. But
he said nothing as she grabbed the handles of his wheelchair, spun it
around, and drove it at the door. I thought she was going to crash into them,
but the magic eye got them open just in time.
Let them go, I thought, but I was tired of letting women go. I was tired of
just letting things happen to me and then feeling bad about them.
A nurse approached me. “Is everything all right?”
“No,” I said, and followed them out.
***
Annie had parked in the lot adjacent to the hospital, where a sign
announced THESE TWO ROWS RESERVED FOR THE HANDICAPPED. She had a van,
I saw, with plenty of room for the folded-up wheelchair in back. She had
gotten the passenger door open, but Mike was refusing to get out of the
chair. He was gripping the handles with all his strength, his hands dead
white.
“Get in!” she shouted at him.

Mike shook his head, not looking at her.
“Get in, dammit!”
This time he didn’t even bother to shake his head.
She grabbed him and yanked. The wheelchair had its brake on and tipped
forward. I grabbed it just in time to keep it from going over and spilling
them both into the open door of the van.
Annie’s hair had fallen into her face, and the eyes peering through it were
wild: the eyes, almost, of a skittish horse in a thunderstorm. “Let go! This is
all your fault! I never should have—”
“Stop,” I said. I took hold of her shoulders. The hollows there were deep,
the bones close to the surface. I thought, She’s been too busy stuffing
calories into him to worry about herself.
“LET ME G—”
“I don’t want to take him away from you,” I said. “Annie, that’s the last
thing I want.”
She stopped struggling. Warily, I let go of her. The novel she’d been
reading had fallen to the pavement in the struggle. I bent down, picked it
up, and put it into the pocket on the back of the wheelchair.
“Mom.” Mike took her hand. “It doesn’t have to be the last good time.”
Then I understood. Even before her shoulders slumped and the sobs
started, I understood. It wasn’t the fear that I’d stick him on some crazy-fast
ride and the burst of adrenaline would kill him. It wasn’t fear that a stranger
would steal the damaged heart she loved so well. It was a kind of atavistic
belief—a mother’s belief—that if they never started doing certain last
things, life would go on as it had: morning smoothies at the end of the
boardwalk, evenings with the kite at the end of the boardwalk, all of it in a
kind of endless summer. Only it was October now and the beach was
deserted. The happy screams of teenagers on the Thunderball and little kids
shooting down the Splash & Crash water slide had ceased, there was a nip
in the air as the days drew down. No summer is endless.
She put her hands over her face and sat down on the passenger seat of the
van. It was too high for her, and she almost slid off. I caught her and
steadied her. I don’t think she noticed.
“Go on, take him,” she said. “I don’t give a fuck. Take him parachutejumping, if you want. Just don’t expect me to be a part of your…your boys’
adventure.”

Mike said, “I can’t go without you.”
That got her to drop her hands and look at him. “Michael, you’re all I’ve
got. Do you understand that?”
“Yes,” he said. He took one of her hands in both of his. “And you’re all
I’ve got.”
I could see by her face that the idea had never crossed her mind, not
really.
“Help me get in,” Mike said. “Both of you, please.”
When he was settled (I don’t remember fastening his seatbelt, so maybe
this was before they were a big deal), I closed the door and walked around
the nose of the van with her.
“His chair,” she said distractedly. “I have to get his chair.”
“I’ll put it in. You sit behind the wheel and get yourself ready to drive.
Take a few deep breaths.”
She let me help her in. I had her above the elbow, and I could close my
whole hand around her upper arm. I thought of telling her she couldn’t live
on arduous novels alone, and thought better of it. She had been told enough
this afternoon.
I folded the wheelchair and stowed it in the cargo compartment, taking
longer with the job than I needed to, giving her time to compose herself.
When I went back to the driver’s side, I half-expected to find the window
rolled up, but it was still down. She had wiped her eyes and nose, and
pushed her hair into some semblance of order.
I said, “He can’t go without you, and neither can I.”
She spoke to me as if Mike weren’t there and listening. “I’m so afraid for
him, all the time. He sees so much, and so much of it hurts him. That’s what
the nightmares are about, I know it. He’s such a great kid. Why can’t he just
get well? Why this? Why this?”
“I don’t know,” I said.
She turned to kiss Mike’s cheek. Then she turned back to me. Drew in a
deep, shaky breath and let it out. “So when do we go?” she asked.
***
The Return of the King was surely not as arduous as The Dissertation, but
that night I couldn’t have read The Cat in the Hat. After eating some canned

spaghetti for supper (and largely ignoring Mrs. Shoplaw’s pointed
observations about how some young people seem determined to mistreat
their bodies), I went up to my room and sat by the window, staring out at
the dark and listening to the steady beat-and-retreat of the surf.
I was on the verge of dozing when Mrs. S. knocked lightly on my door
and said, “You’ve got a call, Dev. It’s a little boy.”
I went down to the parlor in a hurry, because I could think of only one
little boy who might call me.
“Mike?”
He spoke in a low voice. “My mom is sleeping. She said she was tired.”
“I bet she was,” I said, thinking of how we’d ganged up on her.
“I know we did,” Mike said, as if I had spoken the thought aloud. “We
had to.”
“Mike…can you read minds? Are you reading mine?”
“I don’t really know,” he said. “Sometimes I see things and hear things,
that’s all. And sometimes I get ideas. It was my idea to come to Grampa’s
house. Mom said he’d never let us, but I knew he would. Whatever I have,
the special thing, I think it came from him. He heals people, you know. I
mean, sometimes he fakes it, but sometimes he really does.”
“Why did you call, Mike?”
He grew animated. “About Joyland! Can we really ride the merry-goround and the Ferris wheel?”
“I’m pretty sure.”
“Shoot in the shooting gallery?”
“Maybe. If your mother says so. All this stuff is contingent on your
mother’s approval. That means—”
“I know what it means.” Sounding impatient. Then the child’s excitement
broke through again. “That is so awesome!”
“None of the fast rides,” I said. “Are we straight on that? For one thing,
they’re buttoned up for the winter.” The Carolina Spin was, too, but with
Lane Hardy’s help, it wouldn’t take forty minutes to get it running again.
“For another—”
“Yeah, I know, my heart. The Ferris wheel would be enough for me. We
can see it from the end of the boardwalk, you know. From the top, it must
be like seeing the world from my kite.”

I smiled. “It is like that, sort of. But remember, only if your mom says
you can. She’s the boss.”
“We’re going for her. She’ll know when we get there.” He sounded eerily
sure of himself. “And it’s for you, Dev. But mostly it’s for the girl. She’s
been there too long. She wants to leave.”
My mouth dropped open, but there was no danger of drooling; my mouth
had gone entirely dry. “How—” Just a croak. I swallowed again. “How do
you know about her?”
“I don’t know, but I think she’s why I came. Did I tell you it’s not
white?”
“You did, but you said you didn’t know what that meant. Do you now?”
“Nope.” He began to cough. I waited it out. When it cleared, he said, “I
have to go. My mom’s getting up from her nap. Now she’ll be up half the
night, reading.”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah. I really hope she lets me go on the Ferris wheel.”
“It’s called the Carolina Spin, but people who work there just call it the
hoister.” Some of them—Eddie, for instance—actually called it the chumphoister, but I didn’t tell him that. “Joyland folks have this kind of secret
talk. That’s part of it.”
“The hoister. I’ll remember. Bye, Dev.”
The phone clicked in my ear.
***
This time it was Fred Dean who had the heart attack.
He lay on the ramp leading to the Carolina Spin, his face blue and
contorted. I knelt beside him and started chest compressions. When there
was no result from that, I leaned forward, pinched his nostrils shut, and
jammed my lips over his. Something tickled across my teeth and onto my
tongue. I pulled back and saw a black tide of baby spiders pouring from his
mouth.
I woke up half out of bed, the covers pulled loose and wound around me
in a kind of shroud, heart pumping, clawing at my own mouth. It took
several seconds for me to realize there was nothing in there. Nonetheless, I
got up, went to the bathroom, and drank two glasses of water. I may have

had worse dreams than the one that woke me at three o’clock on that
Tuesday morning, but if so, I can’t remember them. I re-made my bed and
laid back down, convinced there would be no more sleep for me that night.
Yet I had almost dozed off again when it occurred to me that the big
emotional scene the three of us had played out at the hospital yesterday
might have been for nothing.
Sure, Joyland was happy to make special arrangements for the lame, the
halt, and the blind—what are now called “special needs children”—during
the season, but the season was over. Would the park’s undoubtedly
expensive insurance policy still provide coverage if something happened to
Mike Ross in October? I could see Fred Dean shaking his head when I
made my request and saying he was very sorry, but—
***
It was chilly that morning, with a strong breeze, so I took my car, parking
beside Lane’s pickup. I was early, and ours were the only vehicles in Lot A,
which was big enough to hold five hundred cars. Fallen leaves tumbled
across the pavement, making an insectile sound that reminded me of the
spiders in my dream.
Lane was sitting in a lawn chair outside Madame For-tuna’s shy (which
would soon be disassembled and stored for the winter), eating a bagel
generously smeared with cream cheese. His derby was tilted at its usual
insouciant angle, and there was a cigarette parked behind one ear. The only
new thing was the denim jacket he was wearing. Another sign, had I needed
one, that our Indian summer was over.
“Jonesy, Jonesy, lookin lonely. Want a bagel? I got extra.”
“Sure,” I said. “Can I talk to you about something while I eat it?”
“Come to confess your sins, have you? Take a seat, my son.” He pointed
to the side of the fortune-telling booth, where another couple of folded lawn
chairs were leaning.
“Nothing sinful,” I said, opening one of the chairs. I sat down and took
the brown bag he was offering. “But I made a promise and now I’m afraid I
might not be able to keep it.”
I told him about Mike, and how I had convinced his mother to let him
come to the park—no easy task, given her fragile emotional state. I finished

with how I’d woken up in the middle of the night, convinced Fred Dean
would never allow it. The only thing I didn’t mention was the dream that
had awakened me.
“So,” Lane said when I’d finished. “Is she a fox? The mommy?”
“Well…yeah. Actually she is. But that isn’t the reason—”
He patted my shoulder and gave me a patronizing smile I could have
done without. “Say nummore, Jonesy, say nummore.”
“Lane, she’s ten years older than I am!”
“Okay, and if I had a dollar for every babe I ever took out who was ten
years younger, I could buy me a steak dinner at Hanratty’s in the Bay. Age
is just a number, my son.”
“Terrific. Thanks for the arithmetic lesson. Now tell me if I stepped in
shit when I told the kid he could come to the park and ride the Spin and the
merry-go-round.”
“You stepped in shit,” he said, and my heart sank. Then he raised a
finger. “But.”
“But?”
“Have you set a date for this little field trip yet?”
“Not exactly. I was thinking maybe Thursday.” Before Erin and Tom
showed up, in other words.
“Thursday’s no good. Friday, either. Will the kid and his foxy mommy
still be here next week?”
“I guess so, but—”
“Then plan on Monday or Tuesday.”
“Why wait?”
“For the paper.” Looking at me as if I were the world’s biggest idiot.
“Paper…?”
“The local rag. It comes out on Thursday. When your latest lifesaving
feat hits the front page, you’re going to be Freddy Dean’s fair-haired boy.”
Lane tossed the remains of his bagel into the nearest litter barrel—two
points—and then raised his hands in the air, as if framing a newspaper
headline. “ ‘Come to Joyland! We not only sell fun, we save lives!’ ” He
smiled and tilted his derby the other way. “Priceless publicity. Fred’s gonna
owe you another one. Take it to the bank and say thanks.”
“How would the paper even find out? I can’t see Eddie Parks telling
them.” Although if he did, he’d probably want them to make sure the part

about how I’d practically crushed his ribcage made Paragraph One.
He rolled his eyes. “I keep forgetting what a Jonesy-come-lately you are
to this part of the world. The only articles anybody actually reads in that
catbox-liner are the Police Beat and the Ambulance Calls. But ambulance
calls are pretty dry. As a special favor to you, Jonesy, I’ll toddle on down to
the Banner office on my lunch break and tell the rubes all about your
heroism. They’ll send someone out to interview you pronto.”
“I don’t really want—”
“Oh gosh, a Boy Scout with a merit badge in modesty. Save it. You want
the kid to get a tour of the park, right?”
“Yes.”
“Then do the interview. Also smile pretty for the camera.”
Which—if I may jump ahead—is pretty much what I did.
As I was folding up my chair, he said: “Our Freddy Dean might have said
fuck the insurance and risked it anyway, you know. He doesn’t look it, but
he’s carny-from-carny himself. His father was a low-pitch jack-jaw on the
corn circuit. Freddy told me once his pop carried a Michigan bankroll big
enough to choke a horse.”
I knew low-pitch, jack-jaw, and corn circuit, but not Michigan bankroll.
Lane laughed when I asked him. “Two twenties on the outside, the rest
either singles or cut-up green paper. A great gag when you want to attract a
tip. But when it comes to Freddy himself, that ain’t the point.” He reset his
derby yet again.
“What is?”
“Carnies have a weakness for good-looking points in tight skirts and kids
down on their luck. They also have a strong allergy to rube rules. Which
includes all the bean-counter bullshit.”
“So maybe I wouldn’t have to—”
He raised his hands to stop me. “Better not to have to find out. Do the
interview.”

The Banner’s photographer posed me in front of the Thunderball. The
picture made me wince when I saw it. I was squinting and thought I looked
like the village idiot, but it did the job; the paper was on Fred’s desk when I
came in to see him on Friday morning. He hemmed and hawed, then okayed
my request, as long as Lane promised to stick with us while the kid and his
mother were in the park.
Lane said okay to that with no hemming or hawing. He said he wanted to
see my girlfriend, then burst out laughing when I started to fulminate.
Later that day, I told Annie Ross I’d set up a tour of the park the
following Tuesday morning, if the weather was good—Wednesday or
Thursday if it wasn’t. Then I held my breath.
There was a long pause, followed by a sigh.
Then she said okay.
***
That was a busy Friday. I left the park early, drove to Wilmington, and was
waiting when Tom and Erin stepped off the train. Erin ran the length of the
platform, threw herself into my arms, and kissed me on both cheeks and the
tip of my nose. She made a lovely armful, but it’s impossible to mistake
sisterly kisses for anything other than what they are. I let her go and
allowed Tom to pull me into an enthusiastic back-thumping manhug. It was
as if we hadn’t seen each other in five years instead of five weeks. I was a
working stiff now, and although I had put on my best chinos and a sportshirt, I looked it. Even with my grease-spotted jeans and sun-faded dogtop
back in the closet of my room at Mrs. S.’s, I looked it.
“It’s so great to see you!” Erin said. “My God, what a tan!”
I shrugged. “What can I say? I’m working in the northernmost province
of the Redneck Riviera.”
“You made the right call,” Tom said. “I never would have believed it
when you said you weren’t going back to school, but you made the right
call. Maybe I should have stayed at Joyland.”
He smiled—that I-French-kissed-the-Blarney-Stone smile of his that
could charm the birdies down from the trees—but it didn’t quite dispel the

shadow that crossed his face. He could never have stayed at Joyland, not
after our dark ride.
They stayed the weekend at Mrs. Shoplaw’s Beachside Accommodations
(Mrs. S. was delighted to have them, and Tina Ackerley was delighted to
see them) and all five of us had a hilarious half-drunk picnic supper on the
beach, with a roaring bonfire to provide warmth. But on Saturday
afternoon, when it came time for Erin to share her troubling information
with me, Tom declared his intention to whip Tina and Mrs. S. at Scrabble
and sent us off alone. I thought that if Annie and Mike were at the end of
their boardwalk, I’d introduce Erin to them. But the day was chilly, the
wind off the ocean was downright cold, and the picnic table at the end of
the boardwalk was deserted. Even the umbrella was gone, taken in and
stored for the winter.
At Joyland, all four parking lots were empty save for the little fleet of
service trucks. Erin—dressed in a heavy turtleneck sweater and wool pants,
carrying a slim and very businesslike briefcase with her initials embossed
on it—raised her eyebrows when I produced my keyring and used the
biggest key to open the gate.
“So,” she said. “You’re one of them now.”
That embarrassed me—aren’t we all embarrassed (even if we don’t know
why) when someone says we’re one of them?
“Not really. I carry a gate-key in case I get here before anyone else, or if
I’m the last to leave, but only Fred and Lane have all the Keys to the
Kingdom.”
She laughed as if I’d said something silly. “The key to the gate is the key
to the kingdom, that’s what I think.” Then she sobered and gave me a long,
measuring stare. “You look older, Devin. I thought so even before we got
off the train, when I saw you waiting on the platform. Now I know why.
You went to work and we went back to Never Never Land to play with the
Lost Boys and Girls. The ones who will eventually turn up in suits from
Brooks Brothers and with MBAs in their pockets.”
I pointed to the briefcase. “That would go with a suit from Brooks
Brothers…if they really make suits for women, that is.”
She sighed. “It was a gift from my parents. My father wants me to be a
lawyer, like him. So far I haven’t gotten up the nerve to tell him I want to be
a freelance photographer. He’ll blow his stack.”

We walked up Joyland Avenue in silence—except for the bonelike rattle
of the fallen leaves. She looked at the covered rides, the dry fountain, the
frozen horses on the merry-go-round, the empty Story Stage in the deserted
Wiggle-Waggle Village.
“Kind of sad, seeing it this way. It makes me think mortal thoughts.” She
looked at me appraisingly. “We saw the paper. Mrs. Shoplaw made sure to
leave it in our room. You did it again.”
“Eddie? I just happened to be there.” We had reached Madame Fortuna’s
shy. The lawn chairs were still leaning against it. I unfolded two and
gestured for Erin to sit down. I sat beside her, then pulled a pint bottle of
Old Log Cabin from the pocket of my jacket. “Cheap whiskey, but it takes
the chill off.”
Looking amused, she took a small nip. I took one of my own, screwed on
the cap, and stowed the bottle in my pocket. Fifty yards down Joyland
Avenue—our midway—I could see the tall false front of Horror House and
read the drippy green letters: COME IN IF YOU DARE.
Her small hand gripped my shoulder with surprising strength. “You saved
the old bastard. You did. Give yourself some credit, you.”
I smiled, thinking of Lane saying I had a merit badge in modesty. Maybe;
giving myself credit for stuff wasn’t one of my strong points in those days.
“Will he live?”
“Probably. Freddy Dean talked to some doctors who said blah-blah-blah,
patient must give up smoking, blah-blah-blah, patient must give up eating
French fries, blah-blah-blah, patient must begin a regular exercise
regimen.”
“I can just see Eddie Parks jogging,” Erin said.
“Uh-huh, with a cigarette in his mouth and a bag of pork rinds in his
hand.”
She giggled. The wind gusted and blew her hair around her face. In her
heavy sweater and businesslike dark gray pants, she didn’t look much like
the flushed American beauty who’d run around Joyland in a little green
dress, smiling her pretty Erin smile and coaxing people to let her take their
picture with her old-fashioned camera.
“What have you got for me? What did you find out?”

She opened her briefcase and took out a folder. “Are you absolutely sure
you want to get into this? Because I don’t think you’re going to listen, say
‘Elementary, my dear Erin,’ and spit out the killer’s name like Sherlock
Holmes.”
If I needed evidence that Sherlock Holmes I wasn’t, my wild idea that
Eddie Parks might have been the so-called Funhouse Killer was it. I thought
of telling her that I was more interested in putting the victim to rest than I
was in catching the killer, but it would have sounded crazy, even factoring
in Tom’s experience. “I’m not expecting that, either.”
“And by the way, you owe me almost forty dollars for interlibrary loan
fees.”
“I’m good for it.”
She poked me in the ribs. “You better be. I’m not working my way
through school for the fun of it.”
She settled her briefcase between her ankles and opened the folder. I saw
Xeroxes, two or three pages of typewritten notes, and some glossy
photographs that looked like the kind the conies got when they bought the
Hollywood Girls’ pitch. “Okay, here we go. I started with the Charleston
News and Courier article you told me about.” She handed me one of the
Xeroxes. “It’s a Sunday piece, five thousand words of speculation and
maybe eight hundred words of actual info. Read it later if you want, I’ll
summarize the salient points.
“Four girls. Five if you count her.” She pointed down the midway at
Horror House. “The first was Delight Mowbray, DeeDee to her friends.
From Waycross, Georgia. White, twenty-one years old. Two or three days
before she was killed, she told her good friend Jasmine Withers that she had
a new boyfriend, older and very handsome. She was found beside a trail on
the edge of the Okefenokee Swamp on August 31st, 1961, nine days after
she disappeared. If the guy had taken her into the swamp, even a little way,
she might not have been found for a much longer time.”
“If ever,” I said. “A body left in there would have been gator-bait in
twenty minutes.”
“Gross but true.” She handed me another Xerox. “This is the story from
the Waycross Journal-Herald.” There was a photo. It showed a somber cop
holding up a plaster cast of tire tracks. “The theory is that he dumped her

where he cut her throat. The tire tracks were made by a truck, the story
says.”
“Dumped her like garbage,” I said.
“Also gross but true.” She handed me another Xeroxed newspaper
clipping. “Here’s number two. Claudine Sharp, from Rocky Mount, right
here in NC. White, twenty-three years old. Found dead in a local theater.
August second, 1963. The movie being shown was Lawrence of Arabia,
which happens to be very long and very loud. The guy who wrote the story
quotes ‘an unnamed police source’ as saying the guy probably cut her throat
during one of the battle scenes. Pure speculation, of course. He left a bloody
shirt and gloves, then must have walked out in the shirt he was wearing
underneath.”
“That just about has to be the guy who killed Linda Gray,” I said. “Don’t
you think so?”
“It sure sounds like it. The cops questioned all her friends, but Claudine
hadn’t said anything about a new boyfriend.”
“Or who she was going to the movies with that night? Not even to her
parents?”
Erin gave me a patient look. “She was twenty-three, Dev, not fourteen.
She lived all the way across town from her parents. Worked in a drugstore
and had a little apartment above it.”
“You got all that from the newspaper story?”
“Of course not. I also made some calls. Practically dialed my fingers off,
if you want to know the truth. You owe me for the long-distance, too. More
about Claudine Sharp later. For now, let’s move on. Victim number three—
according to the News and Courier story—was a girl from Santee, South
Carolina. Now we’re up to 1965. Eva Longbottom, age nineteen. Black.
Disappeared on July fourth. Her body was found nine days later by a couple
of fishermen, lying on the north bank of the Santee River. Raped and
stabbed in the heart. The others were neither black nor raped. You can put
her in the Funhouse Killer column if you want to, but I’m doubtful, myself.
Last victim—before Linda Gray—was her.”
She handed me what had to be a high school yearbook photo of a
beautiful golden-haired girl. The kind who’s the head cheerleader, the
Homecoming Queen, dates the football quarterback…and is still liked by
everyone.

“Darlene Stamnacher. Probably would have changed her last name if
she’d gotten into the movie biz, which was her stated goal. White, nineteen.
From Maxton, North Carolina. Disappeared on June 29th, 1967. Found two
days later, after a massive search, inside a roadside lean-to in the sugar-pine
williwags south of Elrod. Throat cut.”
“Christ, she’s beautiful. Didn’t she have a steady boyfriend?”
“A girl this good-looking, why do you even ask? And that’s where the
police went first, only he wasn’t around. He and three of his buddies had
gone camping in the Blue Ridge, and they could all vouch for him. Unless
he flapped his arms and flew back, it wasn’t him.”
“Then came Linda Gray,” I said. “Number five. If they were all murdered
by the same guy, that is.”
Erin raised a teacherly finger. “And only five if all the guy’s victims have
been found. There could have been others in ’62, ’64, ’66…you get it.”
The wind gusted and moaned through the struts of the Spin.
“Now for the things that trouble me,” Erin said…as if five dead girls
weren’t troubling enough. From her folder she took another Xerox. It was a
flier—a shout, in the Talk—advertising something called Manly Wellman’s
Show of 1000 Wonders. It showed a couple of clowns holding up a
parchment listing some of the wonders, one of which was AMERICA’S FINEST
COLLECTION OF FREAKS! AND ODDITIES! There were also rides, games, fun for
the kiddies, and THE WORLD’S SCARIEST FUNHOUSE!
Come in if you dare, I thought.
“You got this from interlibrary loan?” I asked.
“Yes. I’ve decided you can get anything by way of interlibrary loan, if
you’re willing to dig. Or maybe I should say cock an ear, because it’s really
the world’s biggest jungle telegraph. This ad appeared in the Waycross
Journal-Herald. It ran during the first week of August, 1961.”
“The Wellman carny was in Waycross when the first girl disappeared?”
“Her name was DeeDee Mowbray, and no—it had moved on by then.
But it was there when DeeDee told her girlfriend that she had a new
boyfriend. Now look at this. It’s from the Rocky Mount Telegram. Ran for a
week in mid-July of 1963. Standard advance advertising. I probably don’t
even need to tell you that.”

It was another full-pager shouting Manly Wellman’s Show of 1000
Wonders. Same two clowns holding up the same parchment, but two years
after the stop in Waycross, they were also promising a ten thousand dollar
cover-all Beano game, and the word freaks was nowhere to be seen.
“Was the show in town when the Sharp girl was killed in the movie
theater?”
“Left the day before.” She tapped the bottom of the sheet. “All you have
to do is look at the dates, Dev.”
I wasn’t as familiar with the timeline as she was, but I didn’t bother
defending myself. “The third girl? Long-bottom?”
“I didn’t find anything about a carny in the Santee area, and I sure
wouldn’t have found anything about the Wellman show, because it went
bust in the fall of 1964. I found that in Outdoor Trade and Industry. So far
as I or any of my many librarian helpers could discover, it’s the only trade
magazine that covers the carny and amusement park biz.”
“Jesus, Erin, you should forget photography and find yourself a rich
writer or movie producer. Hire on as his research assistant.”
“I’d rather take pictures. Research is too much like work. But don’t lose
the thread here, Devin. There was no carny in the Santee area, true, but the
Eva Longbottom murder doesn’t look like the other four, anyway. Not to
me. No rape in the others, remember?”
“That you know of. Newspapers are coy about that stuff.”
“That’s right, they say molested or sexually assaulted instead of raped,
but they get the point across, believe me.”
“What about Darlene Shoemaker? Was there—”
“Stamnacher. These girls were murdered, Dev, the least you can do is get
their names right.”
“I will. Give me time.”
She put a hand over mine. “Sorry. I’m throwing this at you all at once,
aren’t I? I’ve had weeks to brood over it.”
“Have you been?”
“Sort of. It’s pretty awful.”
She was right. If you read a whodunit or see a mystery movie, you can
whistle gaily past whole heaps of corpses, only interested in finding out if it
was the butler or the evil stepmother. But these had been real young
women. Crows had probably ripped their flesh; maggots would have

infested their eyes and squirmed up their noses and into the gray meat of
their brains.
“Was there a carny in the Maxton area when the Stamnacher girl was
killed?”
“No, but there was a county fair about to start in Lumberton—that’s the
nearest town of any size. Here.”
She handed me another Xerox, this one advertising the Robeson County
Summer Fair. Once again, Erin tapped the sheet. This time she was calling
my attention to a line reading 50 SAFE RIDES PROVIDED BY SOUTHERN STAR
AMUSEMENTS. “I also looked Southern Star up in Outdoor Trade and
Industry. The company’s been around since after World War II. They’re
based in Birmingham and travel all over the south, putting up rides.
Nothing so grand as the Thunderball or the Delirium Shaker, but they’ve
got plenty of chump-shoots, and the jocks to run them.”
I had to grin at that. She hadn’t forgotten all the Talk, it seemed. Chumpshoots were rides that could be easily put up or taken down. If you’ve ever
ridden the Krazy Kups or the Wild Mouse, you’ve been on a chump-shoot.
“I called the ride-boss at Southern Star. Said I’d worked at Joyland this
summer, and was doing a term paper on the amusement industry for my
sociology class. Which I just might do, you know. After all this, it would be
a slam-dunk. He told me what I’d already guessed, that there’s a big
turnover in their line of work. He couldn’t tell me offhand if they’d picked
anyone up from the Wellman show, but he said it was likely—a couple of
roughies here, a couple of jocks there, maybe a ride-monkey or two. So the
guy who killed DeeDee and Claudine could have been at that fair, and
Darlene Stamnacher could have met him. The fair wasn’t officially open for
business yet, but lots of townies gravitate to the local fairgrounds to watch
the ride-monkeys and the local gazoonies do the setup.” She looked at me
levelly. “And I think that’s just what happened.”
“Erin, is the carny link in the story the News and Courier published after
Linda Gray was killed? Or maybe I should call it the amusement link.”
“Nope. Can I have another nip from your bottle? I’m cold.”
“We can go inside—”
“No, it’s this murder stuff that makes me cold. Every time I go over it.”

I gave her the bottle, and after she’d taken her nip, I took one of my own.
“Maybe you’re Sherlock Holmes,” I said. “What about the cops? Do you
think they missed it?”
“I don’t know for sure, but I think…they did. If this was a detective show
on TV, there’d be one smart old cop—a Lieutenant Columbo type—who’d
look at the big picture and put it together, but I guess there aren’t many
guys like that in real life. Besides, the big picture is hard to see because it’s
scattered across three states and eight years. One thing you can be sure of is
that if he ever worked at Joyland, he’s long gone. I’m sure the turnover at
an amusement park isn’t as fast as it is in a road company like Southern Star
Amusements, but there are still plenty of people leaving and coming in.”
I knew that for myself. Ride-jocks and concession shouters aren’t exactly
the most grounded people, and gazoonies went in and out like the tide.
“Now here’s the other thing that troubles me,” she said, and handed me
her little pile of eight-by-ten photos. Printed on the white border at the
bottom of each was PHOTO TAKEN BY YOUR JOYLAND “HOLLYWOOD GIRL.”
I shuffled through them, and felt in need of another nip when I realized
what they were: the photos showing Linda Gray and the man who had
killed her. “Jesus God, Erin, these aren’t newspaper pix. Where’d you get
them?”
“Brenda Rafferty. I had to butter her up a little, tell her what a good mom
she’d been to all us Hollywood Girls, but in the end she came through.
These are fresh prints made from negatives she had in her personal files and
loaned to me. Here’s something interesting, Dev. You see the headband the
Gray girl’s wearing?”
“Yes.” An Alice band, Mrs. Shoplaw had called it. A blue Alice band.
“Brenda said they fuzzed that out in the shots they gave to the
newspapers. They thought it would help them nail the guy, but it never did.”
“So what troubles you?”
God knew all of the pictures troubled me, even the ones where Gray and
the man she was with were just passing in the background, only
recognizable by her sleeveless blouse and Alice band and his baseball cap
and dark glasses. In only two of them were Linda Gray and her killer sharp
and clear. The first showed them at the Whirly Cups, his hand resting
casually on the swell of Gray’s bottom. In the other—the best of the lot—

they were at the Annie Oakley Shootin’ Gallery. Yet in neither was the
man’s face really visible. I could have passed him on the street and not
known him.
Erin plucked up the Whirly Cups photo. “Look at his hand.”
“Yeah, the tattoo. I see it, and I heard about it from Mrs. S. What do you
make it to be? A hawk or an eagle?”
“I think an eagle, but it doesn’t matter.”
“Really?”
“Really. Remember I said I’d come back to Claudine Sharp? A young
woman getting her throat cut in the local movie theater—during Lawrence
of Arabia, no less—was big news in a little town like Rocky Mount. The
Telegram ran with it for almost a month. The cops turned up exactly one
lead, Dev. A girl Claudine went to high school with saw her at the snackbar
and said hello. Claudine said hi right back. The girl said there was a man in
sunglasses and a baseball cap next to her, but she never thought the guy was
with Claudine, because he was a lot older. The only reason she noticed him
at all was because he was wearing sunglasses in a movieshow…and
because he had a tattoo on his hand.”
“The bird.”
“No, Dev. It was a Coptic cross. Like this.” She took out another Xerox
sheet and showed me. “She told the cops she thought at first it was some
kind of Nazi symbol.”
I looked at the cross. It was elegant, but looked nothing at all like a bird.
“Two tats, one on each hand,” I said at last. “The bird on one, the cross on
the other.”
She shook her head and gave me the Whirly Cups photo again. “Which
hand’s got the bird on it?”
He was standing on Linda Gray’s left, encircling her waist. The hand
resting on her bottom…
“The right.”
“Yes. But the girl who saw him in the movie theater said the cross was on
his right.”
I considered this. “She made a mistake, that’s all. Witnesses do it all the
time.”
“Sure they do. My father could talk all day on that subject. But look,
Dev.”

Erin handed me the Shootin’ Gallery photo, the best of the bunch because
they weren’t just passing in the background. A roving Hollywood Girl had
seen them, noted the cute pose, and snapped them, hoping for a sale. Only
the guy had given her the brushoff. A hard brushoff, according to Mrs.
Shoplaw. That made me remember how she had described the photo: Him
snuggled up to her hip to hip, showing her how to hold the rifle, the way
guys always do. The version Mrs. S. saw would have been a fuzzy
newspaper reproduction, made up of little dots. This was the original, so
sharp and clear I almost felt I could step into it and warn the Gray girl. He
was snuggled up to her, his hand over hers on the barrel of the beebeeshooting .22, helping her aim.
It was his left hand. And there was no tattoo on it.
Erin said, “You see it, don’t you?”
“There’s nothing to see.”
“That’s the point, Dev. That’s exactly the point.”
“Are you saying that it was two different guys? That one with a cross on
his hand killed Claudine Sharp and another one—a guy with a bird on his
hand—killed Linda Gray? That doesn’t seem very likely.”
“I couldn’t agree more.”
“Then what are you saying?”
“I thought I saw something in one of the photos, but I wasn’t sure, so I
took the print and the negative to a grad student named Phil Hendron. He’s
a darkroom genius, practically lives in the Bard Photography Department.
You know those clunky Speed Graphics we carried?”
“Sure.”
“They were mostly for effect—cute girls toting old-fashioned cameras—
but Phil says they’re actually pretty terrific. You can do a lot with the negs.
For example…”
She handed me a blow-up of the Whirly Cups pic. The Hollywood Girl’s
target had been a young couple with a toddler between them, but in this
enlarged version they were hardly there. Now Linda Gray and her
murderous date were at the center of the image.
“Look at his hand, Dev. Look at the tattoo!”
I did, frowning. “It’s a little hard to see,” I complained. “The hand’s
blurrier than the rest.”
“I don’t think so.”

This time I held the photo close to my eyes. “It’s…Jesus, Erin. Is it the
ink? Is it running? Just a little?”
She gave me a triumphant smile. “July of 1969. A hot night in Dixie.
Almost everybody was sweating buckets. If you don’t believe me, look at
some of the other pictures and note the perspiration rings. Plus, he had
something else to be sweaty about, didn’t he? He had murder on his mind.
An audacious one, at that.”
I said, “Oh, shit. Pirate Pete’s.”
She pointed a forefinger at me. “Bingo.”
Pirate Pete’s was the souvenir shop outside the Splash & Crash, proudly
flying a Jolly Roger from its roof. Inside you could get the usual stuff—teeshirts, coffee mugs, beach towels, even a pair of swim-trunks if your kid
forgot his, everything imprinted with the Joyland logo. There was also a
counter where you could get a wide assortment of fake tattoos. They came
on decals. If you didn’t feel capable of applying it yourself, Pirate Pete (or
one of his greenie minions) would do it for a small surcharge.
Erin was nodding. “I doubt he got it there—that would have been dumb,
and this guy isn’t dumb—but I’m sure it’s not a real tattoo, any more than
the Coptic cross the girl saw in that Rocky Mount movie theater was a real
tattoo.” She leaned forward and gripped my arm. “You know what I think? I
think he does it because it draws attention. People notice the tattoo and
everything else just…” She tapped the indistinct shapes that had been the
actual subject of this photo before her friend at Bard blew it up.
I said, “Everything else about him fades into the background.”
“Yup. Later he just washes it off.”
“Do the cops know?”
“I have no idea. You could tell them—not me, I’m going back to school
—but I’m not sure they’d care at this late date.”
I shuffled through the photos again. I had no doubt that Erin had actually
discovered something, although I did doubt it would, by itself, be
responsible for the capture of the Funhouse Killer. But there was something
else about the photos. Something. You know how sometimes a word gets
stuck on the tip of your tongue and just won’t come off? It was like that.
“Have there been any murders like these five—or these four, if we leave
out Eva Longbottom—since Linda Gray? Did you check?”

“I tried,” she said. “The short answer is I don’t think so, but I can’t say
for sure. I’ve read about fifty murders of young girls and women—fifty at
least—and haven’t found any that fit the parameters.” She ticked them off.
“Always in summer. Always as a result of a dating situation with an
unknown older man. Always the cut throat. And always with some sort of
carny connec—”
“Hello, kids.”
We looked up, startled. It was Fred Dean. Today he was wearing a
golfing shirt, bright red baggies, and a long-billed cap with HEAVEN’S BAY
COUNTRY CLUB stitched in gold thread above the brim. I was a lot more used
to seeing him in a suit, where informality consisted of pulling down his tie
and popping the top button of his Van Heusen shirt. Dressed for the links,
he looked absurdly young. Except for the graying wings of hair at his
temples, that was.
“Hello, Mr. Dean,” Erin said, standing up. Most of her paperwork—and
some of the photographs—were still clutched in one hand. The folder was
in the other. “I don’t know if you remember me—”
“Of course I do,” he said, approaching. “I never forget a Hollywood Girl,
but sometimes I do mix up the names. Are you Ashley or Jerri?”
She smiled, put her paperwork back in the folder, and handed it to me. I
added the photos I was still holding. “I’m Erin.”
“Of course. Erin Cook.” He dropped me a wink, which was even weirder
than seeing him in old-fashioned golfing baggies. “You have excellent taste
in young ladies, Jonesy.”
“I do, don’t I?” It seemed too complicated to tell him that Erin was
actually Tom Kennedy’s girlfriend. Fred probably wouldn’t remember Tom
anyway, never having seen him in a flirty green dress and high heels.
“I just stopped by to get the accounts books. Quarterly IRS payments
coming up. Such a pain in the hindquarters. Enjoying your little alumna
visit, Erin?”
“Yes, sir, very much.”
“Coming back next year?”
She looked a trifle uncomfortable at that, but stuck gamely to the truth.
“Probably not.”

“Fair enough, but if you change your mind, I’m sure Brenda Rafferty can
find a place for you.” He switched his attention to me. “This boy you plan
to bring to the park, Jonesy. Have you set a date with his mother?”
“Tuesday. Wednesday or Thursday if it’s rainy. The kid can’t be out in the
rain.”
Erin was looking at me curiously.
“I advise you stick to Tuesday,” he said. “There’s a storm coming up the
coast. Not a hurricane, thank God, but a tropical disturbance. Lots of rain
and gale-force winds is what they’re saying. It’s supposed to arrive midmorning on Wednesday.”
“Okay,” I said. “Thanks for the tip.”
“Nice to see you again, Erin.” He tipped his cap to her and started off
toward the back lot.
Erin waited until he was out of sight before bursting into giggles. “Those
pants. Did you see those pants?”
“Yeah,” I said. “Pretty wild.” But I was damned if I was going to laugh at
them. Or him. According to Lane, Fred Dean held Joyland together with
spit, baling wire, and account-book wizardry. That being the case, I thought
he could wear all the golf baggies he wanted. And at least they weren’t
checks.
“What’s this about bringing some kid to the park?”
“Long story,” I said. “I’ll tell you while we walk back.”
So I did, giving her the Boy-Scout-majoring-in-modesty version and
leaving out the big argument at the hospital. Erin listened without
interruption, asking only one question, just as we reached the steps leading
up from the beach. “Tell me the truth, Dev—is mommy foxy?”
People kept asking me that.
***
That night Tom and Erin went out to Surfer Joe’s, a beer-and-boogie bar
where they had spent more than a few off-nights during the summer. Tom
invited me along, but I heeded that old saying about two being company
and three being you-know-what. Besides, I doubted if they’d find the same
raucous, party-hearty atmosphere. In towns like Heaven’s Bay, there’s a big

difference between July and October. In my role as big brother, I even said
so.
“You don’t understand, Dev,” Tom said. “Me n Erin don’t go looking for
the fun; we bring the fun. It’s what we learned last summer.”
Nevertheless, I heard them coming up the stairs early, and almost sober,
from the sound of them. Yet there were whispers and muffled laughter,
sounds that made me feel a little lonely. Not for Wendy; just for someone.
Looking back on it, I suppose even that was a step forward.
I read through Erin’s notes while they were gone, but found nothing new.
I set them aside after fifteen minutes and went back to the photographs,
crisp black-and-white images TAKEN BY YOUR JOYLAND “HOLLYWOOD GIRL.”
At first I just shuffled through them; then I sat on the floor and laid them
out in a square, moving them from place to place like a guy trying to put a
puzzle together. Which was, I suppose, exactly what I was doing.
Erin was troubled by the carny connection and the tattoos that probably
weren’t real tattoos at all. Those things troubled me as well, but there was
something else. Something I couldn’t quite get. It was maddening because I
felt like it was staring me right in the face. Finally I put all but two of the
photos back in the folder. The key two. These I held up, looking first at one,
then at the other.
Linda Gray and her killer waiting in line at the Whirly Cups.
Linda Gray and her killer at the Shootin’ Gallery.
Never mind the goddam tattoo, I told myself. It’s not that. It’s something
else.
But what else could it be? The sunglasses masked his eyes. The goatee
masked his lower face, and the slightly tilted bill of the baseball cap shaded
his forehead and eyebrows. The cap’s logo showed a catfish peering out of
a big red C, the insignia of a South Carolina minor league team called the
Mudcats. Dozens of Mudcat lids went through the park every day at the
height of the season, so many that we called them fishtops instead of
dogtops. The bastard could hardly have picked a more anonymous lid, and
surely that was the idea.
Back and forth I went, from the Whirly Cups to the Shootin’ Gallery and
then back to the Whirly Cups again. At last I tossed the photos in the folder

and threw the folder on my little desk. I read until Tom and Erin came in,
then went to bed.
Maybe it’ll come to me in the morning, I thought. I’ll wake up and say,
“Oh shit, of course.”
The sound of the incoming waves slipped me into sleep. I dreamed I was
on the beach with Annie and Mike. Annie and I were standing with our feet
in the surf, our arms around each other, watching Mike fly his kite. He was
paying out twine and running after it. He could do that because there was
nothing wrong with him. He was fine. I had only dreamed that stuff about
Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy.
I woke early because I’d forgotten to pull down the shade. I went to the
folder, pulled out those two photographs, and stared at them in the day’s
first sunlight, positive I’d see the answer.
But I didn’t.
***
A harmony of scheduling had allowed Tom and Erin to travel from New
Jersey to North Carolina together, but when it comes to train schedules,
harmony is the exception rather than the rule. The only ride they got
together on Sunday was the one from Heaven’s Bay to Wilmington, in my
Ford. Erin’s train left for upstate New York and Annandale-on-Hudson two
hours before Tom’s Coastal Express was due to whisk him back to New
Jersey.
I tucked a check in her jacket pocket. “Interlibrary loans and long
distance.”
She fished it out, looked at the amount, and tried to hand it back. “Eighty
dollars is too much, Dev.”
“Considering all you found out, it’s not enough. Take it, Lieutenant
Columbo.”
She laughed, put it back in her pocket, and kissed me goodbye—another
brother-sister quickie, nothing like the one we’d shared that night at the end
of the summer. She spent considerably longer in Tom’s arms. Promises
were made about Thanksgiving at Tom’s parents’ home in western
Pennsylvania. I could tell he didn’t want to let her go, but when the

loudspeakers announced last call for Richmond, Baltimore, Wilkes-Barre,
and points north, he finally did.
When she was gone, Tom and I strolled across the street and had an early
dinner in a not-too-bad ribs joint. I was contemplating the dessert selection
when he cleared his throat and said, “Listen, Dev.”
Something in his voice made me look up in a hurry. His cheeks were
even more flushed than usual. I put the menu down.
“This stuff you’ve had Erin doing…I think it should stop. It’s bothering
her, and I think she’s been neglecting her coursework.” He laughed, glanced
out the window at the train-station bustle, looked back at me. “I sound more
like her dad than her boyfriend, don’t I?”
“You sound concerned, that’s all. Like you care for her.”
“Care for her? Buddy, I’m head-over-heels in love. She’s the most
important thing in my life. What I’m saying here isn’t jealousy talking,
though. I don’t want you to get that idea. Here’s the thing: if she’s going to
transfer and still hold onto her financial aid, she can’t let her grades slip.
You see that, don’t you?”
Yes, I could see that. I could see something else, too, even if Tom
couldn’t. He wanted her away from Joyland in mind as well as body,
because something had happened to him there that he couldn’t understand.
Nor did he want to, which in my opinion made him sort of a fool. That dour
flush of envy ran through me again, causing my stomach to clench around
the food it was trying to digest.
Then I smiled—it was an effort, I won’t kid you about that—and said,
“Message received. As far as I’m concerned, our little research project is
over.” So relax, Thomas. You can stop thinking about what happened in
Horror House. About what you saw there.
“Good. We’re still friends, right?”
I reached across the table. “Friends to the end,” I said.
We shook on it.
***
The Wiggle-Waggle Village’s Story Stage had three backdrops: Prince
Charming’s Castle, Jack’s Magic Beanstalk, and a starry night sky featuring
the Carolina Spin outlined in red neon. All three had sun-faded over the

course of the summer. I was in the Wiggle-Waggle’s small backstage area
on Monday morning, touching them up (and hoping not to fuck them up—I
was no Van Gogh) when one of the part-time gazoonies arrived with a
message from Fred Dean. I was wanted in his office.
I went with some unease, wondering if I was going to get a reaming for
bringing Erin into the park on Saturday. I was surprised to find Fred dressed
not in one of his suits or his amusing golf outfit, but in faded jeans and an
equally faded Joyland tee-shirt, the short sleeves rolled to show some real
muscle. There was a paisley sweatband cinched around his brow. He didn’t
look like an accountant or the park’s chief employment officer; he looked
like a ride-jock.
He registered my surprise and smiled. “Like the outfit? I must admit I do.
It’s the way I dressed when I caught on with the Blitz Brothers show in the
Midwest, back in the fifties. My mother was okay with the Blitzies, but my
dad was horrified. And he was carny.”
“I know,” I said.
He raised his eyebrows. “Really? Word gets around, doesn’t it? Anyway,
there’s a lot to do this afternoon.”
“Just give me a list. I’m almost done painting the backdrops in the—”
“Not at all, Jonesy. You’re signing out at noon today, and I don’t want to
see you until tomorrow morning at nine, when you turn up with your guests.
Don’t worry about your paycheck, either. I’ll see you’re not docked for the
hours you miss.”
“What’s this about, Fred?”
He gave me a smile I couldn’t interpret. “It’s a surprise.”
***
That Monday was warm and sunny, and Annie and Mike were having lunch
at the end of the boardwalk when I walked back to Heaven’s Bay. Milo saw
me coming and raced to meet me.
“Dev!” Mike called. “Come and have a sandwich! We’ve got plenty!”
“No, I really shouldn’t—”
“We insist,” Annie said. Then her brow furrowed. “Unless you’re sick, or
something. I don’t want Mike to catch a bug.”

“I’m fine, just got sent home early. Mr. Dean—he’s my boss—wouldn’t
tell me why. He said it was a surprise. It’s got something to do with
tomorrow, I guess.” I looked at her with some anxiety. “We’re still on for
tomorrow, right?”
“Yes,” she said. “When I surrender, I surrender. Just… we’re not going to
tire him out. Are we, Dev?”
“Mom,” Mike said.
She paid him no mind. “Are we?”
“No, ma’am.” Although seeing Fred Dean dressed up like a carny road
dog, with all those unsuspected muscles showing, had made me uneasy.
Had I made it clear to him how fragile Mike’s health was? I thought so, but
—
“Then come on up here and have a sandwich,” she said. “I hope you like
egg salad.”
***
I didn’t sleep well on Monday night, half-convinced that the tropical storm
Fred had mentioned would arrive early and wash out Mike’s trip to the
park, but Tuesday dawned cloudless. I crept down to the parlor and turned
on the TV in time to get the six forty-five weathercast on WECT. The storm
was still coming, but the only people who were going to feel it today were
the ones living in coastal Florida and Georgia. I hoped Mr. Easterbrook had
packed his galoshes.
“You’re up early,” Mrs. Shoplaw said, poking her head in from the
kitchen. “I was just making scrambled eggs and bacon. Come have some.”
“I’m not that hungry, Mrs. S.”
“Nonsense. You’re still a growing boy, Devin, and you need to eat. Erin
told me what you’ve got going on today, and I think you’re doing a
wonderful thing. It will be fine.”
“I hope you’re right,” I said, but I kept thinking of Fred Dean in his
work-clothes. Fred, who’d sent me home early. Fred, who had a surprise
planned.
***

We had made our arrangements at lunch the day before, and when I turned
my old car into the driveway of the big green Victorian at eight-thirty on
Tuesday morning, Annie and Mike were ready to go. So was Milo.
“Are you sure nobody will mind us bringing him?” Mike had asked on
Monday. “I don’t want to get into trouble.”
“Service dogs are allowed in Joyland,” I said, “and Milo’s going to be a
service dog. Aren’t you, Milo?”
Milo had cocked his head, apparently unfamiliar with the service dog
concept.
Today Mike was wearing his huge, clanky braces. I moved to help him
into the van, but he waved me off and did it himself. It took a lot of effort
and I expected a coughing fit, but none came. He was practically bouncing
with excitement. Annie, looking impossibly long-legged in Lee Riders,
handed me the van keys. “You drive.” And lowering her voice so Mike
wouldn’t hear: “I’m too goddam nervous to do it.”
I was nervous, too. I’d bulldozed her into this, after all. I’d had help from
Mike, true, but I was the adult. If it went wrong, it would be on me. I wasn’t
much for prayer, but as I loaded Mike’s crutches and wheelchair into the
back of the van, I sent one up that nothing would go wrong. Then I backed
out of the driveway, turned onto Beach Drive, and drove past the billboard
reading BRING YOUR KIDS TO JOYLAND FOR THE TIME OF THEIR LIVES!
Annie was in the passenger seat, and I thought she had never looked
more beautiful than she did that October morning, in her faded jeans and a
light sweater, her hair tied back with a hank of blue yarn.
“Thank you for this, Dev,” she said. “I just hope we’re doing the right
thing.”
“We are,” I said, trying to sound more confident than I felt. Because, now
that it was a done deal, I had my doubts.
***
The Joyland sign was lit up—that was the first thing I noticed. The second
was that the summertime get-happy music was playing through the
loudspeakers: a sonic parade of late sixties and early seventies hits. I had
intended to park in one of the Lot A handicapped spaces—they were only
fifty feet or so from the park entrance—but before I could do so, Fred Dean

stepped through the open gate and beckoned us forward. Today he wasn’t
wearing just any suit but the three-piecer he saved for the occasional
celebrity who rated a VIP tour. The suit I had seen, but never the black silk
top hat, which looked like the kind you saw diplomats wearing in old
newsreel footage.
“Is this usual?” Annie asked.
“Sure,” I said, a trifle giddily. None of it was usual.
I drove through the gate and onto Joyland Avenue, pulling up next to the
park bench outside the Wiggle-Waggle Village where Mr. Easterbrook had
once sat during my first turn as Howie.
Mike wanted to get out of the van the way he’d gotten in: by himself. I
stood by, ready to catch him if he lost his balance, while Annie hoisted the
wheelchair out of the back. Milo sat at my feet, tail thumping, ears cocked,
eyes bright.
As Annie rolled the wheelchair up, Fred approached in a cloud of
aftershave. He was…resplendent. There’s really no other word for it. He
took off his hat, bowed to Annie, then held out a hand. “You must be
Mike’s mother.” You have to remember that Ms. wasn’t common usage
back then, and, nervous as I was, I took a moment to appreciate how deftly
he had avoided the Miss/Mrs. dichotomy.
“I am,” she said. I don’t know if she was flustered by his courtliness or
by the difference in the way they were dressed—she amusement-park
casual, he state-visit formal—but flustered she was. She shook his hand,
though. “And this young man—”
“—is Michael.” He offered his hand to the wide-eyed boy standing there
in his steel supports. “Thank you for coming today.”
“You’re welcome…I mean, thank you. Thank you for having us.” He
shook Fred’s hand. “This place is huge.”
It wasn’t, of course; Disney World is huge. But to a ten-year-old who had
never been to an amusement park, it had to look that way. For a moment I
could see it through his eyes, see it new, and my doubts about bringing him
began to melt away.
Fred bent down to examine the third member of the Ross family, hands
on his knees. “And you’re Milo!”
Milo barked.

“Yes,” Fred said, “and I am equally pleased to meet you.” He held out his
hand, waiting for Milo to raise his paw. When he did, Fred shook it.
“How do you know our dog’s name?” Annie asked. “Did Dev tell you?”
He straightened, smiling. “He did not. I know because this is a magic
place, my dear. For instance.” He showed her his empty hands, then put
them behind his back. “Which hand?”
“Left,” Annie said, playing along.
Fred brought out his left hand, empty.
She rolled her eyes, smiling. “Okay, right.”
This time he brought out a dozen roses. Real ones. Annie and Mike
gasped. Me too. All these years later, I have no idea how he did it.
“Joyland is for children, my dear, and since today Mike is the only child
here, the park belongs to him. These, however, are for you.”
She took them like a woman in a dream, burying her face in the blooms,
smelling their sweet red dust.
“I’ll put them in the van for you,” I said.
She held them a moment longer, then passed them to me.
“Mike,” Fred said, “do you know what we sell here?”
He looked uncertain. “Rides? Rides and games?”
“We sell fun. So what do you say we have some?”
***
I remember Mike’s day at the park—Annie’s day, too—as if it happened
last week, but it would take a correspondent much more talented than I am
to tell you how it felt, or to explain how it could have ended the last hold
Wendy Keegan still held over my heart and my emotions. All I can say is
what you already know: some days are treasure. Not many, but I think in
almost every life there are a few. That was one of mine, and when I’m blue
—when life comes down on me and everything looks tawdry and cheap, the
way Joyland Avenue did on a rainy day—I go back to it, if only to remind
myself that life isn’t always a butcher’s game. Sometimes the prizes are
real. Sometimes they’re precious.
Of course not all the rides were running, and that was okay, because there
were a lot of them Mike couldn’t handle. But more than half of the park was
operational that morning—the lights, the music, even some of the shys,

where half a dozen gazoonies were on duty selling popcorn, fries, sodas,
cotton candy, and Pup-A-Licious dogs. I have no idea how Fred and Lane
pulled it off in a single afternoon, but they did.
We started in the Village, where Lane was waiting beside the engine of
the Choo-Choo Wiggle. He was wearing a pillowtick engineer’s cap instead
of his derby, but it was cocked at the same insouciant angle. Of course it
was. “All aboard! This is the ride that makes kids happy, so get on board
and make it snappy. Dogs ride free, moms ride free, kids ride up in the
engine with me.”
He pointed at Mike, then to the passenger seat in the engine. Mike got
out of his chair, set his crutches, then tottered on them. Annie started for
him.
“No, Mom. I’m okay. I can do it.”
He got his balance and clanked to where Lane was standing—a real boy
with robot legs—and allowed Lane to boost him into the passenger seat. “Is
that the cord that blows the whistle? Can I pull it?”
“That’s what it’s there for,” Lane said, “but watch out for pigs on the
tracks. There’s a wolf in the area, and they’re scared to death of him.”
Annie and I sat in one of the cars. Her eyes were bright. Roses all her
own burned in her cheeks. Her lips, though tightly pressed together, were
trembling.
“You okay?” I asked her.
“Yes.” She took my hand, laced her fingers through mine, and squeezed
almost tight enough to hurt. “Yes. Yes. Yes.”
“Controls green across the board!” Lane cried. “Check me on that,
Michael!”
“Check!”
“Watch out for what on the tracks?”
“Pigs!”
“Kid, you got style that makes me smile. Give that yell-rope a yank and
we’re off!”
Mike yanked the cord. The whistle howled. Milo barked. The airbrakes
chuffed, and the train began to move.
Choo-Choo Wiggle was strictly a zamp ride, okay? All the rides in the
Village were zamps, meant mostly for boys and girls between the ages of
three and seven. But you have to remember how seldom Mike Ross had

gotten out, especially since his pneumonia the year before, and how many
days he had sat with his mother at the end of that boardwalk, listening to the
rumble of the rides and the happy screams coming from down the beach,
knowing that stuff wasn’t for him. What was for him was more gasping for
air as his lungs failed, more coughing, a gradual inability to walk even with
the aid of crutches and braces, and finally the bed where he would die,
wearing diapers under his PJs and an oxygen mask over his face.
Wiggle-Waggle Village was sort of depopulated with no greenies to play
the fairy-tale parts, but Fred and Lane had reactivated all the mechanicals:
the magic beanstalk that shot out of the ground in a burst of steam; the
witch cackling in front of the Candy House; the Mad Hatter’s tea party; the
nightcap-wearing wolf who lurked beneath one of the underpasses and
sprang at the train as it passed. As we rounded the final turn, we passed
three houses all kids know well—one of straw, one of sticks, and one of
bricks.
“Watch out for pigs!” Lane cried, and just then they came waddling onto
the tracks, uttering amplified oinks. Mike shrieked with laughter and
yanked the whistle. As always, the pigs escaped…barely.
When we pulled back into the station, Annie let go of my hand and
hurried up to the engine. “Are you okay, hon? Want your inhaler?”
“No, I’m fine.” Mike turned to Lane. “Thanks, Mr. Engineer!”
“My pleasure, Mike.” He held out a hand, palm up. “Slap me five if
you’re still alive.”
Mike did, and with gusto. I doubt if he’d ever felt more alive.
“Now I’ve got to move on,” Lane said. “Today I am a man of many
hats.” He dropped me a wink.
***
Annie vetoed the Whirly Cups but allowed Mike—not without
apprehension—to ride the Chair-O-Planes. She gripped my arm even harder
than she had my hand when his chair rose thirty feet above the ground and
began to tilt, then loosened up again when she heard him laughing.
“God,” she said, “look at his hair! How it flies out behind him!” She was
smiling. She was also crying, but didn’t seem aware of it. Nor of my arm,
which had found its way around her waist.

Fred was running the controls, and knew enough to keep the ride at halfspeed, rather than bringing it all the way up to full, which would have had
Mike parallel to the ground, held in only by centrifugal force. When he
finally came back to earth, the kid was too dizzy to walk. Annie and I each
took an arm and guided him to the wheelchair. Fred toted Mike’s crutches.
“Oh, man.” It seemed to be all he could say. “Oh man, oh man.”
The Dizzy Speedboats—a land ride in spite of the name—was next. Mike
rode over the painted water in one with Milo, both of them clearly loving it.
Annie and I took another one. Although I had been working at Joyland for
over four months by then, I’d never been on this ride, and I yelled the first
time I saw us rushing prow-first at Mike and Milo’s boat, only to shear off
at the last second.
“Wimp!” Annie shouted in my ear.
When we got off, Mike was breathing hard but still not coughing. We
rolled him up Hound Dog Way and grabbed sodas. The gazoonie refused to
take the fivespot Annie held out. “Everything’s on the house today,
ma’am.”
“Can I have a Pup, Mom? And some cotton candy?”
She frowned, then sighed and shrugged. “Okay. Just as long as you
understand that stuff is still off-limits, buster. Today’s an exception. And no
more fast rides.”
He wheeled ahead to the Pup-A-Licious shy, his own pup trotting beside
him. She turned to me. “It’s not about nutrition, if that’s what you’re
thinking. If he gets sick to his stomach, he might vomit. And vomiting is
dangerous for kids in Mike’s condition. They—”
I kissed her, just a gentle brush of my lips across hers. It was like
swallowing a tiny drop of something incredibly sweet. “Hush,” I said.
“Does he look sick?”
Her eyes got very large. For a moment I felt positive that she was going
to slap me and walk away. The day would be ruined and it would be my
own stupid goddam fault. Then she smiled, looking at me in a speculative
way that made my stomach feel light. “I bet you could do better than that, if
you had half a chance.”
Before I could think of a reply, she was hurrying after her son. It really
would have made no difference if she’d hung around, because I was totally
flummoxed.

***
Annie, Mike, and Milo crowded into one car of the Gondola Glide, which
crossed above the whole park on a diagonal. Fred Dean and I rode beneath
them in one of the electric carts, with Mike’s wheelchair tucked in back.
“Seems like a terrific kid,” Fred commented.
“He is, but I never expected you to go all-out like this.”
“That’s for you as much as for him. You’ve done the park more good
than you seem to know, Dev. When I told Mr. Easterbrook I wanted to go
big, he gave me the green light.”
“You called him?”
“I did indeed.”
“That thing with the roses…how’d you pull it off?”
Fred shot his cuffs and looked modest. “A magician never tells his
secrets. Don’t you know that?”
“Did you have a card-and-bunny-gig when you were with Blitz
Brothers?”
“No, sir, I did not. All I did with the Blitzies was ride-jock and drag the
midway. And, although I did not have a valid driver’s license, I also drove a
truck on a few occasions when we had to DS from some rube-ranch or other
in the dead of night.”
“So where did you learn the magic?”
Fred reached behind my ear, pulled out a silver dollar, dropped it into my
lap. “Here and there, all around the square. Better goose it a little, Jonesy.
They’re getting ahead of us.”
***
From Skytop Station, where the gondola ride ended, we went to the merrygo-round. Lane Hardy was waiting. He had lost the engineer’s cap and was
once more sporting his derby. The park’s loudspeakers were still pumping
out rock and roll, but under the wide, flaring canopy of what’s known in the
Talk as the spinning jenny, the rock was drowned out by the calliope
playing “A Bicycle Built for Two.” It was recorded, but still sweet and oldfashioned.

Before Mike could mount the dish, Fred dropped to one knee and
regarded him gravely. “You can’t ride the jenny without a Joyland hat,” he
said. “We call em dog-tops. Got one?”
“No,” Mike said. He still wasn’t coughing, but dark patches had begun to
creep out beneath his eyes. Where his cheeks weren’t flushed with
excitement, he looked pale. “I didn’t know I was supposed to…”
Fred took off his own hat, peered inside, showed it to us. It was empty, as
all magicians’ top hats must be when they are displayed to the audience. He
looked into it again, and brightened. “Ah!” He brought out a brand new
Joyland dogtop and put it on Mike’s head. “Perfect! Now which beast do
you want to ride? A horse? The unicorn? Marva the Mermaid? Leo the
Lion?”
“Yes, the lion, please!” Mike cried. “Mom, you ride the tiger right next to
me!”
“You bet,” she said. “I’ve always wanted to ride a tiger.”
“Hey, champ,” Lane said, “lemme help you up the ramp.”
While he did that, Annie lowered her voice and spoke to Fred. “Not a lot
more, okay? It’s all great, a day he’ll never forget, but—”
“He’s fading,” Fred said. “I understand.”
Annie mounted the snarling, green-eyed tiger next to Mike’s lion. Milo
sat between them, grinning a doggy grin. As the merry-go-round started to
move, “A Bicycle Built for Two” gave way to “Twelfth Street Rag.” Fred
put his hand on my shoulder. “You’ll want to meet us at the Spin—we’ll
make that his last ride—but you need to visit the costume shop first. And
put some hustle into it.”
I started to ask why, then realized I didn’t need to. I headed for the back
lot. And yes, I put some hustle into it.
***
That Tuesday morning in October of 1973 was the last time I wore the fur. I
put it on in the costume shop and used Joyland Under to get back to the
middle of the park, pushing one of the electric carts as fast as it would go,
my Howie-head bouncing up and down on one shoulder. I surfaced behind
Madame Fortuna’s shy, just in time. Lane, Annie, and Mike were coming
up the midway. Lane was pushing Mike’s chair. None of them saw me

peering around the corner of the shy; they were looking at the Carolina
Spin, their necks craned. Fred saw me, though. I raised a paw. He nodded,
then turned and raised his own paw to whoever was currently watching
from the little sound booth above Customer Services. Seconds later, Howiemusic rolled from all the speakers. First up was Elvis, singing “Hound
Dog.”
I leaped from cover, going into my Howie-dance, which was kind of a
fucked-up soft-shoe. Mike gaped. Annie clapped her hands to her temples,
as if she’d suddenly been afflicted with a monster headache, then started
laughing. I believe what followed was one of my better performances. I
hopped and skipped around Mike’s chair, hardly aware that Milo was doing
the same thing, only in the other direction. “Hound Dog” gave way to the
Rolling Stones version of “Walking the Dog.” That’s a pretty short song,
which was good—I hadn’t realized how out of shape I was.
I finished by throwing my arms wide and yelling: “Mike! Mike! Mike!”
That was the only time Howie ever talked, and all I can say in my defense is
that it really sounded more like a bark.
Mike rose from his chair, opened his arms, and fell forward. He knew I’d
catch him, and I did. Kids half his age had given me the Howie-Hug all
summer long, but no hug had ever felt so good. I only wished I could turn
him around and squeeze him the way I had Hallie Stansfield, expelling what
was wrong with him like an aspirated chunk of hotdog.
Face buried in the fur, he said: “You make a really good Howie, Dev.”
I rubbed his head with one paw, knocking off his dog-top. I couldn’t
reply as Howie—barking his name was as close as I could come to that—
but I was thinking, A good kid deserves a good dog. Just ask Milo.
Mike looked up into Howie’s blue mesh eyes. “Will you come on the
hoister with us?”
I gave him an exaggerated nod and patted his head again. Lane picked up
Mike’s new dogtop and stuck it back on his head.
Annie approached. Her hands were clasped demurely at her waist, but her
eyes were full of merriment. “Can I unzip you, Mr. Howie?”
I wouldn’t have minded, but of course I couldn’t let her. Every show has
its rules, and one of Joyland’s—hard and fast—was that Howie the Happy
Hound was always Howie the Happy Hound. You never took off the fur
where the conies could see.

***
I ducked back into Joyland Under, left the fur in the cart, and rejoined
Annie and Mike at the ramp leading up to the Carolina Spin. Annie looked
up nervously and said, “Are you sure you want to do this, Mike?”
“Yes! It’s the one I want to do most!”
“All right, then. I guess.” To me she added: “I’m not terrified of heights,
but they don’t exactly thrill me.”
Lane was holding a car door open. “Climb aboard, folks. I’m going to
send you up where the air is rare.” He bent down and scruffed Milo’s ears.
“You’re sittin this one out, fella.”
I sat on the inside, nearest the wheel. Annie sat in the middle, and Mike
on the outside, where the view was best. Lane dropped the safety bar, went
back to the controls, and reset his derby on a fresh slant. “Amazement
awaits!” he called, and up we went, rising with the stately calm of a
coronation procession.
Slowly, the world opened itself beneath us: first the park, then the bright
cobalt of the ocean on our right and all of the North Carolina lowlands on
our left. When the Spin reached the top of its great circle, Mike let go of the
safety bar, raised his hands over his head, and shouted, “We’re flying!”
A hand on my leg. Annie’s. I looked at her and she mouthed two words:
Thank you. I don’t know how many times Lane sent us around—more spins
than the usual ride, I think, but I’m not sure. What I remember best was
Mike’s face, pale and full of wonder, and Annie’s hand on my thigh, where
it seemed to burn. She didn’t take it away until we slowed to a stop.
Mike turned to me. “Now I know what my kite feels like,” he said.
So did I.
***
When Annie told Mike he’d had enough, the kid didn’t object. He was
exhausted. As Lane helped him into his wheelchair, Mike held out a hand,
palm up. “Slap me five if you’re still alive.”
Grinning, Lane slapped him five. “Come back anytime, Mike.”
“Thanks. It was so great.”

Lane and I pushed him up the midway. The booths on both sides were
shut up again, but one of the shys was open: Annie Oakley’s Shootin’
Gallery. Standing at the chump board, where Pop Allen had stood all
summer long, was Fred Dean in his three-piece suit. Behind him, chaindriven rabbits and ducks traveled in opposite directions. Above them were
bright yellow ceramic chicks. These were stationary, but very small.
“Like to try your shooting skill before you exit the park?” Fred asked.
“There are no losers today. Today ev-rybody wins a prize.”
Mike looked around at Annie. “Can I, Mom?”
“Sure, honey. But not long, okay?”
He tried to get out of the chair, but couldn’t. He was too tired. Lane and I
propped him up, one on each side. Mike picked up a rifle and took a couple
of shots, but he could no longer steady his arms, even though the gun was
light. The beebees struck the canvas backdrop and clicked into the gutter at
the bottom.
“Guess I suck,” he said, putting the rifle down.
“Well, you didn’t exactly burn it up,” Fred allowed, “but as I said, today
everyone wins a prize.” With that, he handed over the biggest Howie on the
shelf, a top stuffy that even sharpshooters couldn’t earn without spending
eight or nine bucks on reloads.
Mike thanked him and sat back down, looking overwhelmed. That damn
stuffed dog was almost as big as he was. “You try, Mom.”
“No, that’s okay,” she said, but I thought she wanted to. It was something
in her eyes as she measured the distance between the chump board and the
targets.
“Please?” He looked first at me, then at Lane. “She’s really good. She
won the prone shooting tournament at Camp Perry before I was born and
came in second twice. Camp Perry’s in Ohio.”
“I don’t—”
Lane was already holding out one of the modified .22s. “Step right up.
Let’s see your best Annie Oakley, Annie.”
She took the rifle and examined it in a way few of the conies ever did.
“How many shots?”
“Ten a clip,” Fred said.
“If I’m going to do this, can I shoot two clips?”
“As many as you want, ma’am. Today’s your day.”

“Mom used to also shoot skeet with my grampa,” Mike told them.
Annie raised the .22 and squeezed off ten shots with a pause of perhaps
two seconds between each. She knocked over two moving ducks and three
of the moving bunnies. The teensy ceramic chicks she ignored completely.
“A crack shot!” Fred crowed. “Any prize on the middle shelf, your pick!”
She smiled. “Fifty percent isn’t anywhere near crack. My dad would have
covered his face for shame. I’ll just take the reload, if that’s okay.”
Fred took a paper cone from under the counter—a wee shoot, in the Talk
—and put the small end into a hole on top of the gag rifle. There was a
rattle as another ten beebees rolled in.
“Are the sights on these trigged?” she asked Fred.
“No, ma’am. All the games at Joyland are straight. But if I told you Pop
Allen—the man who usually runs this shy—spent long hours sighting them
in, I’d be a liar.”
Having worked on Pop’s team, I knew that was disingenuous, to say the
least. Sighting in the rifles was the last thing Pop would do. The better the
rubes shot, the more prizes Pop had to give away…and he had to buy his
own prizes. All the shy-bosses did. They were cheap goods, but not free
goods.
“Shoots left and high,” she said, more to herself than to us. Then she
raised the rifle, socked it into the hollow of her right shoulder, and triggered
off ten rounds. This time there was no discernable pause between shots, and
she didn’t bother with the ducks and bunnies. She aimed for the ceramic
chicks and exploded eight of them.
As she put the gun back on the counter, Lane used his bandanna to wipe a
smutch of sweat and grime from the back of his neck. He spoke very softly
as he did this chore. “Jesus Horatio Christ. Nobody gets eight peeps.”
“I only nicked the last one, and at this range I should have had them all.”
She wasn’t boasting, just stating a fact.
Mike said, almost apologetically: “Told you she was good.” He curled a
fist over his mouth and coughed into it. “She was thinking about the
Olympics, only then she dropped out of college.”
“You really are Annie Oakley,” Lane said, stuffing his bandanna back
into a rear pocket. “Any prize, pretty lady. You pick.”
“I already have my prize,” she said. “This has been a wonderful,
wonderful day. I can never thank you guys enough.” She turned in my

direction. “And this guy. Who actually had to talk me into it. Because I’m a
fool.” She kissed the top of Mike’s head. “But now I better get my boy
home. Where’s Milo?”
We looked around and saw him halfway down Joyland Avenue, sitting in
front of Horror House with his tail curled around his paws.
“Milo, come!” Annie called.
His ears pricked up but he didn’t come. He didn’t even turn in her
direction, just stared at the façade of Joyland’s only dark ride. I could
almost believe he was reading the drippy, cobweb-festooned invitation:
COME IN IF YOU DARE.
While Annie was looking at Milo, I stole a glance at Mike. Although he
was all but done in from the excitements of the day, his expression was hard
to mistake. It was satisfaction. I know it’s crazy to think he and his Jack
Russell had worked this out in advance, but I did think it.
I still do.
“Roll me down there, Mom,” Mike said. “He’ll come with me.”
“No need for that,” Lane said. “If you’ve got a leash, I’m happy to go get
him.”
“It’s in the pocket on the back of Mike’s wheelchair,” Annie said.
“Um, probably not,” Mike said. “You can check but I’m pretty sure I
forgot it.”
Annie checked while I thought, In a pig’s ass you forgot.
“Oh, Mike,” Annie said reproachfully. “Your dog, your responsibility.
How many times have I told you?”
“Sorry, Mom.” To Fred and Lane he said, “Only we hardly ever use it
because Milo always comes.”
“Except when we need him to.” Annie cupped her hands around her
mouth. “Milo, come on! Time to go home!” Then, in a much sweeter voice:
“Biscuit, Milo! Come get a biscuit!”
Her coaxing tone would have brought me on the run—probably with my
tongue hanging out—but Milo didn’t budge.
“Come on Dev,” Mike said. As if I were also in on the plan but had
missed my cue, somehow. I grabbed the wheelchair’s handles and rolled
Mike down Joyland Avenue toward the funhouse. Annie followed. Fred and
Lane stayed where they were, Lane leaning on the chump board among the

laid-out popguns on their chains. He had removed his derby and was
spinning it on one finger.
When we got to the dog, Annie regarded him crossly. “What’s wrong
with you, Milo?”
Milo thumped his tail at the sound of Annie’s voice, but didn’t look at
her. Nor did he move. He was on guard and intended to stay that way unless
he was hauled away.
“Michael, please make your dog heel so we can go home. You need to
get some r—”
Two things happened before she could finish. I’m not exactly sure of the
sequence. I’ve gone over it often in the years since then—most often on
nights when I can’t sleep—and I’m still not sure. I think the rumble came
first: the sound of a ride-car starting to roll along its track. But it might have
been the padlock dropping. It’s even possible that both things happened at
the same time.
The big American Master fell off the double doors below the Horror
House façade and lay on the boards, gleaming in the October sunshine. Fred
Dean said later that the shackle must not have been pushed firmly into the
locking mechanism, and the vibration of the moving car caused it to open
all the way. This made perfect sense, because the shackle was indeed open
when I checked it.
Still bullshit, though.
I put that padlock on myself, and remember the click as the shackle
clicked into place. I even remember tugging on it to make sure it caught, the
way you do with a padlock. And all that begs a question Fred didn’t even
try to answer: with the Horror House breakers switched off, how could that
car have gotten rolling in the first place? As for what happened next…
Here’s how a trip through Horror House ended. On the far side of the
Torture Chamber, just when you thought the ride was over and your guard
was down, a screaming skeleton (nicknamed Hagar the Horrible by the
greenies) came flying at you, seemingly on a collision course with your car.
When it pulled away, you saw a stone wall dead ahead. Painted there in
fluorescent green was a rotting zombie and a gravestone with END OF THE
LINE printed on it. Of course the stone wall split open just in time, but that
final double-punch was extremely effective. When the car emerged into the

daylight, making a semicircle before going back in through another set of
double doors and stopping, even grown men were often screaming their
heads off. Those final shrieks (always accompanied by gales of oh-shit-yougot-me laughter) were Horror House’s best advertisement.
There were no screams that day. Of course not, because when the double
doors banged open, the car that emerged was empty. It rolled through the
semicircle, bumped lightly against the next set of double doors, and
stopped.
“O-kay,” Mike said. It was a whisper so low that I barely heard it, and
I’m sure Annie didn’t—all her attention had been drawn to the car. The kid
was smiling.
“What made it do that?” Annie asked.
“I don’t know,” I said. “Short-circuit, maybe. Or some kind of power
surge.” Both of those explanations sounded good, as long as you didn’t
know about the breakers being off.
I stood on my tiptoes and peered into the stalled car. The first thing I
noticed was that the safety bar was up. If Eddie Parks or one of his greenie
minions forgot to lower it, the bar was supposed to snap down
automatically once the ride was in motion. It was a state-mandated safety
feature. The bar being up on this one made a goofy kind of sense, though,
since the only rides in the park that had power that morning were the ones
Lane and Fred had turned on for Mike.
I spotted something beneath the semicircular seat, something as real as
the roses Fred had given Annie, only not red.
It was a blue Alice band.
***
We headed back to the van. Milo, once more on best behavior, padded
along beside Mike’s wheelchair.
“I’ll be back as soon as I get them home,” I told Fred. “Put in some extra
hours.”
He shook his head. “You’re eighty-six for today. Get to bed early, and be
here tomorrow at six. Pack a couple of extra sandwiches, because we’ll all
be working late. Turns out that storm’s moving a little faster than the
weather forecasters expected.”

Annie looked alarmed. “Should I pack some stuff and take Mike to town,
do you think? I’d hate to when he’s so tired, but—”
“Check the radio this evening,” Fred advised. “If NOAA issues a coastal
evacuation order, you’ll hear it in plenty of time, but I don’t think that’ll
happen. This is just going to be your basic cap of wind. I’m a little worried
about the high rides, that’s all—the Thunderball, the Shaker, and the Spin.”
“They’ll be okay,” Lane said. “They stood up to Agnes last year, and that
was a bona fide hurricane.”
“Does this storm have a name?” Mike asked.
“They’re calling it Gilda,” Lane said. “But it’s no hurricane, just a little
old subtropical depression.”
Fred said, “Winds are supposed to start picking up around midnight, and
the heavy rain’ll start an hour or two later. Lane’s probably right about the
big rides, but it’s still going to be a busy day. Have you got a slicker, Dev?”
“Sure.”
“You’ll want to wear it.”
***
The weather forecast we heard on WKLM as we left the park eased Annie’s
mind. The winds generated by Gilda weren’t expected to top thirty miles an
hour, with occasionally higher gusts. There might be some beach erosion
and minor flooding inland, but that was about it. The dj called it “great kiteflying weather,” which made us all laugh. We had a history now, and that
was nice.
Mike was almost asleep by the time we arrived back at the big Victorian
on Beach Row. I lifted him into his wheelchair. It wasn’t much of a chore;
I’d put on muscle in the last four months, and with those horrible braces off,
he couldn’t have weighed seventy pounds. Milo once more paced the chair
as I rolled it up the ramp and into the house.
Mike needed the toilet, but when his mother tried to take over the
wheelchair handles, Mike asked if I’d do it, instead. I rolled him into the
bathroom, helped him to stand, and eased down his elastic-waisted pants
while he held onto the grab bars.
“I hate it when she has to help me. I feel like a baby.”

Maybe, but he pissed with a healthy kid’s vigor. Then, as he leaned
forward to push the flush handle, he staggered and almost took a header
into the toilet bowl. I had to catch him.
“Thanks, Dev. I already washed my hair once today.” That made me
laugh, and Mike grinned. “I wish we were going to have a hurricane. That’d
be boss.”
“You might not think so if it happened.” I was remembering Hurricane
Doria, two years before. It hit New Hampshire and Maine packing ninetymile-an-hour winds, knocking down trees all over Portsmouth, Kittery,
Sanford, and the Berwicks. One big old pine just missed our house, our
basement flooded, and the power had been out for four days.
“I wouldn’t want stuff to fall down at the park, I guess. That’s just about
the best place in the world. That I’ve ever been, anyway.”
“Good. Hold on, kid, let me get your pants back up. Can’t have you
mooning your mother.”
That made him laugh again, only the laughter turned to coughing. Annie
took over when we came out, rolling him down the hall to the bedroom.
“Don’t you sneak out on me, Devin,” she called back over her shoulder.
Since I had the afternoon off, I had no intention of sneaking out on her if
she wanted me to stay awhile. I strolled around the parlor, looking at things
that were probably expensive but not terribly interesting—not to a young
man of twenty-one, anyway. A huge picture window, almost wall-to-wall,
saved what would otherwise have been a gloomy room, flooding it with
light. The window looked out on the back patio, the boardwalk, and the
ocean. I could see the first clouds feathering in from the southeast, but the
sky overhead was still bright blue. I remember thinking that I’d made it to
the big house after all, although I’d probably never have a chance to count
all the bathrooms. I remember thinking about the Alice band, and
wondering if Lane would see it when he put the wayward car back under
cover. What else was I thinking? That I had seen a ghost after all. Just not
of a person.
Annie came back. “He wants to see you, but don’t stay long.”
“Okay.”
“Third door on the right.”
I went down the hall, knocked lightly, and let myself in. Once you got
past the grab bars, the oxygen tanks in the corner, and the leg braces

standing at steely attention beside the bed, it could have been any boy’s
room. There was no baseball glove and no skateboard propped against the
wall, but there were posters of Mark Spitz and Miami Dolphins running
back Larry Csonka. In the place of honor above the bed, the Beatles were
crossing Abbey Road.
There was a faint smell of liniment. Mike looked very small in the bed,
all but lost under a green coverlet. Milo was curled up, nose to tail, beside
him, and Mike was stroking his fur absently. It was hard to believe this was
the same kid who had raised his hands triumphantly over his head at the
apogee of the Carolina Spin. He didn’t look sad, though. He looked almost
radiant.
“Did you see her, Dev? Did you see her when she left?”
I shook my head, smiling. I had been jealous of Tom, but not of Mike.
Never of Mike.
“I wish my grampa had been there. He would have seen her, and heard
what she said when she left.”
“What did she say?”
“Thanks. She meant both of us. And she told you to be careful. Are you
sure you didn’t hear her? Even a little?”
I shook my head again. No, not even a little.
“But you know.” His face was too pale and tired, the face of a boy who
was very sick, but his eyes were alive and healthy. “You know, don’t you?”
“Yes.” Thinking of the Alice band. “Mike, do you know what happened
to her?”
“Someone killed her.” Very low.
“I don’t suppose she told you…”
But there was no need to finish. He was shaking his head.
“You need to sleep,” I said.
“Yeah, I’ll feel better after a nap. I always do.” His eyes closed, then
slowly opened again. “The Spin was the best. The hoister. It’s like flying.”
“Yes,” I said. “It is like that.”
This time when his eyes closed, they didn’t re-open. I walked to the door
as quietly as I could. As I put my hand on the knob, he said, “Be careful,
Dev. It’s not white.”
I looked back. He was sleeping. I’m sure he was. Only Milo was
watching me. I left, closing the door softly.

***
Annie was in the kitchen. “I’m making coffee, but maybe you’d rather have
a beer? I’ve got Blue Ribbon.”
“Coffee would be fine.”
“What do you think of the place?”
I decided to tell the truth. “The furnishings are a little elderly for my
taste, but I never went to interior decorating school.”
“Nor did I,” she said. “Never even finished college.”
“Join the club.”
“Ah, but you will. You’ll get over the girl who dumped you, and you’ll
go back to school, and you’ll finish, and you’ll march off into a brilliant
future.”
“How do you know about—”
“The girl? One, you might as well be wearing a sandwich board. Two,
Mike knows. He told me. He’s been my brilliant future. Once upon a time I
was going to major in anthropology. I was going to win a gold medal at the
Olympics. I was going to see strange and fabulous places and be the
Margaret Mead of my generation. I was going to write books and do my
best to earn back my father’s love. Do you know who he is?”
“My landlady says he’s a preacher.”
“Indeed he is. Buddy Ross, the man in the white suit. He also has a great
head of white hair. He looks like an older version of the Man from Glad in
the TV ads. Mega church; big radio presence; now TV. Offstage, he’s an
asshole with a few good points.” She poured two cups of coffee. “But that’s
pretty much true of all of us, isn’t it? I think so.”
“You sound like someone with regrets.” It wasn’t the politest thing to say,
but we were beyond that. I hoped so, at least.
She brought the coffee and sat down opposite me. “Like the song says,
I’ve had a few. But Mike’s a great kid, and give my father this—he’s taken
care of us financially so I could be with Mike full-time. The way I look at
it, checkbook love is better than no love at all. I made a decision today. I
think it happened when you were wearing that silly costume and doing that
silly dance. While I was watching Mike laugh.”
“Tell me.”

“I decided to give my father what he wants, which is to be invited back
into my son’s life before it’s too late. He said terrible things about how God
caused Mike’s MD to punish me for my supposed sins, but I’ve got to put
that behind me. If I wait for an apology, I’ll be waiting a long time…
because in his heart, Dad still believes that’s true.”
“I’m sorry.”
She shrugged, as if it were of no matter. “I was wrong about not letting
Mike go to Joyland, and I’ve been wrong about holding onto my old
grudges and insisting on some sort of fucked-up quid pro quo. My son isn’t
goods in a trading post. Do you think thirty-one’s too old to grow up, Dev?”
“Ask me when I get there.”
She laughed. “Touché. Excuse me a minute.”
She was gone for almost five. I sat at the kitchen table, sipping my
coffee. When she came back, she was holding her sweater in her right hand.
Her stomach was tanned. Her bra was a pale blue, almost matching her
faded jeans.
“Mike’s fast asleep,” she said. “Would you like to go upstairs with me,
Devin?”
***
Her bedroom was large but plain, as if, even after all the months she had
spent here, she’d never fully unpacked. She turned to me and linked her
arms around my neck. Her eyes were very wide and very calm. A trace of a
smile touched the corners of her mouth, making soft dimples. “ ‘I bet you
could do better, if you had half a chance.’ Remember me saying that?”
“Yes.”
“Is that a bet I’d win?”
Her mouth was sweet and damp. I could taste her breath.
She drew back and said, “It can only be this once. You have to
understand that.”
I didn’t want to, but I did. “Just as long as it’s not…you know…”
She was really smiling now, almost laughing. I could see teeth as well as
dimples. “As long as it’s not a thank-you fuck? It’s not, believe me. The last
time I had a kid like you, I was a kid myself.” She took my right hand and
put it on the silky cup covering her left breast. I could feel the soft, steady

beat of her heart. “I must not have let go of all my daddy issues yet, because
I feel delightfully wicked.”
We kissed again. Her hands dropped to my belt and unbuckled it. There
was the soft rasp as my zipper went down, and then the side of her palm
was sliding along the hard ridge beneath my shorts. I gasped.
“Dev?”
“What?”
“Have you ever done this before? Don’t you dare lie to me.”
“No.”
“Was she an idiot? This girl of yours?”
“I guess we both were.”
She smiled, slipped a cool hand inside my underwear, and gripped me.
That sure hold, coupled with her gently moving thumb, made all of
Wendy’s efforts at boyfriend satisfaction seem very minor league. “So
you’re a virgin.”
“Guilty as charged.”
“Good.”
***
It wasn’t just the once, and that was lucky for me, because the first time
lasted I’m going to say eight seconds. Maybe nine. I got inside, that much I
did manage, but then everything spurted everywhere. I may have been more
embarrassed once—the time I blew an ass-trumpet while taking communion
at Methodist Youth Camp—but I don’t think so.
“Oh God,” I said, and put a hand over my eyes.
She laughed, but there was nothing mean about it. “In a weird way, I’m
flattered. Try to relax. I’m going downstairs for another check on Mike. I’d
just as soon he didn’t catch me in bed with Howie the Happy Hound.”
“Very funny.” I think if I’d blushed any harder, my skin would have
caught on fire.
“I think you’ll be ready again when I come back. It’s the nice thing about
being twenty-one, Dev. If you were seventeen, you’d probably be ready
now.”
She came back with a couple of sodas in an ice bucket, but when she
slipped out of her robe and stood there naked, Coke was the last thing I

wanted. The second time was quite a bit better; I think I might have
managed four minutes. Then she began to cry out softly, and I was gone.
But what a way to go.
***
We drowsed, Annie with her head pillowed in the hollow of my shoulder.
“Okay?” she asked.
“So okay I can’t believe it.”
I didn’t see her smile, but I felt it. “After all these years, this bedroom
finally gets used for something besides sleeping.”
“Doesn’t your father ever stay here?”
“Not for a long time, and I only started coming back because Mike loves
it here. Sometimes I can face the fact that he’s almost certainly going to die,
but mostly I can’t. I just turn away from it. I make deals with myself. ‘If I
don’t take him to Joyland, he won’t die. If I don’t make it up with my father
so Dad can come and see him, he won’t die. If we just stay here, he won’t
die.’ A couple of weeks ago, the first time I had to make him put on his coat
to go down to the beach, I cried. He asked me what was wrong, and I told
him it was my time of the month. He knows what that is.”
I remembered something Mike had said to her in the hospital parking lot:
It doesn’t have to be the last good time. But sooner or later the last good
time would come around. It does for all of us.
She sat up, wrapping the sheet around her. “Remember me saying that
Mike turned out to be my future? My brilliant career?”
“Yes.”
“I can’t think of another one. Anything beyond Michael is just…blank.
Who said that in America there are no second acts?”
I took her hand. “Don’t worry about act two until act one is over.”
She slipped her hand free and caressed my face with it. “You’re young,
but not entirely stupid.”
It was nice of her to say, but I certainly felt stupid. About Wendy, for one
thing, but that wasn’t the only thing. I found my mind drifting to those
damn pictures in Erin’s folder. Something about them…
She lay back down. The sheet slipped away from her nipples, and I felt
myself begin to stir again. Some things about being twenty-one were pretty

great. “The shooting gallery was fun. I forgot how good it is, sometimes,
just to have that eye-and-hand thing going on. My father put a rifle in my
hands for the first time when I was six. Just a little single-shot .22. I loved
it.”
“Yeah?”
She was smiling. “Yeah. It was our thing, the thing that worked. The only
thing, as it turned out.” She propped herself up on an elbow. “He’s been
selling that hellfire and brimstone shit since he was a teenager, and it’s not
just about the money—he got a triple helping of backroads gospel from his
own parents, and I have no doubt he believes every word of it. You know
what, though? He’s still a southern man first and a preacher second. He’s
got a custom pickup truck that cost fifty thousand dollars, but a pickup
truck is still a pickup truck. He still eats biscuits and gravy at Shoney’s. His
idea of sophisticated humor is Minnie Pearl and Junior Samples. He loves
songs about cheatin and honky-tonkin. And he loves his guns. I don’t care
for his brand of Jesus and I have no interest in owning a pickup truck, but
the guns…that he passed on to his only daughter. I go bang-bang and feel
better. Shitty legacy, huh?”
I said nothing, only got out of bed and opened the Cokes. I gave one to
her.
“He’s probably got fifty guns at his full-time place in Savannah, most of
them valuable antiques, and there’s another half a dozen in the safe here.
I’ve got two rifles of my own at my place in Chicago, although I hadn’t shot
at a target for two years before today. If Mike dies…” She held the Coke
bottle to the middle of her forehead, as if trying to soothe a headache.
“When Mike dies, the first thing I’m going to do is get rid of them all.
They’d be too much temptation.”
“Mike wouldn’t want—”
“No, of course not, I know that, but it’s not all about him. If I could
believe—like my holy-hat father—that I was going to find Mike waiting
outside the golden gates to show me in after I die, that would be one thing.
But I don’t. I tried my ass off to believe that when I was a little girl, and I
couldn’t. God and heaven lasted about four years longer than the Tooth
Fairy, but in the end, I couldn’t. I think there’s just darkness. No thought, no
memory, no love. Just darkness. Oblivion. That’s why I find what’s
happening to him so hard to accept.”

“Mike knows it’s more than oblivion,” I said.
“What? Why? Why do you think that?”
Because she was there. He saw her, and he saw her go. Because she said
thank you. And I know because I saw the Alice band, and Tom saw her.
“Ask him,” I said. “But not today.”
She put her Coke aside and studied me. She was wearing the little smile
that put dimples at the corners of her mouth. “You’ve had seconds. I don’t
suppose you’d be interested in thirds?”
I put my own Coke down beside the bed. “As a matter of fact…”
She held out her arms.
***
The first time was embarrassing. The second time was good. The third…
man, the third time was the charm.
***
I waited in the parlor while Annie dressed. When she came downstairs, she
was back in her jeans and sweater. I thought of the blue bra just beneath the
sweater, and damned if I didn’t feel that stirring again.
“Are we good?” she said.
“Yes, but I wish we could be even better.”
“I wish that, too, but this is as good as it’s ever going to get. If you like
me as much as I like you, you’ll accept that. Can you?”
“Yes.”
“Good.”
“How much longer will you and Mike be here?”
“If the place doesn’t blow away tonight, you mean?”
“It won’t.”
“A week. Mike’s got a round of specialists back in Chicago starting on
the seventeenth, and I want to get settled before then.” She drew in a deep
breath. “And talk to his grandpa about a visit. There’ll have to be some
ground rules. No Jesus, for one.”
“Will I see you again before you leave?”

“Yes.” She put her arms around me and kissed me. Then she stepped
away. “But not like this. It would confuse things too much. I know you get
that.”
I nodded. I got it.
“You better go now, Dev. And thank you. It was lovely. We saved the
best ride for last, didn’t we?”
That was true. Not a dark ride but a bright one. “I wish I could do more.
For you. For Mike.”
“So do I,” she said, “but that’s not the world we live in. Come by
tomorrow for supper, if the storm’s not too bad. Mike would love to see
you.”
She looked beautiful, standing there barefooted in her faded jeans. I
wanted to take her in my arms, and lift her, and carry her into some
untroubled future.
Instead, I left her where she was. That’s not the world we live in, she’d
said, and how right she was.
How right she was.
***
About a hundred yards down Beach Row, on the inland side of the twolane, there was a little cluster of shops too tony to be called a strip mall: a
gourmet grocery, a salon called Hair’s Looking at You, a drugstore, a
branch of the Southern Trust, and a restaurant called Mi Casa, where the
Beach Row elite no doubt met to eat. I didn’t give those shops so much as a
glance when I drove back to Heaven’s Bay and Mrs. Shoplaw’s. If ever I
needed proof that I didn’t have the gift that Mike Ross and Rozzie Gold
shared, that was it.
***
Go to bed early, Fred Dean had told me, and I did. I lay on my back with
my hands behind my head, listening to the waves as I had all summer long,
remembering the touch of her hands, the firmness of her breasts, the taste of
her mouth. Mostly it was her eyes I thought about, and the fan of her hair
on the pillow. I didn’t love her the way I loved Wendy—that sort of love, so

strong and stupid, only comes once—but I loved her. I did then and still do
now. For her kindness, mostly, and her patience. Some young man
somewhere may have had a better initiation into the mysteries of sex, but no
young man ever had a sweeter one.
Eventually, I slept.
***
It was a banging shutter somewhere below that woke me. I picked my
watch up from the night table and saw it was quarter of one. I didn’t think
there was going to be any more sleep for me until that banging stopped, so I
got dressed, started out the door, then returned to the closet for my slicker.
When I got downstairs, I paused. From the big bedroom down the hall from
the parlor, I could hear Mrs. S. sawing wood in long, noisy strokes. No
banging shutter was going to break her rest.
It turned out I didn’t need the slicker, at least not yet, because the rain
hadn’t started. The wind was strong, though; it had to be blowing twentyfive already. The low, steady thud of the surf had become a muted roar. I
wondered if the weather boffins had underestimated Gilda, thought of
Annie and Mike in the house down the beach, and felt a tickle of unease.
I found the loose shutter and re-fastened it with the hook-and-eye. I let
myself back in, went upstairs, undressed, and lay down again. This time
sleep wouldn’t come. The shutter was quiet, but there was nothing I could
do about the wind moaning around the eaves (and rising to a low scream
each time it gusted). Nor could I turn off my brain, now that it was running
again.
It’s not white, I thought. That meant nothing to me, but it wanted to mean
something. It wanted to connect with something I’d seen at the park during
our visit.
There’s a shadow over you, young man. That had been Rozzie Gold, on
the day that I’d met her. I wondered how long she had worked at Joyland,
and where she had worked before. Was she carny-from-carny? And what
did it matter?
One of these children has the sight. I don’t know which.
I knew. Mike had seen Linda Gray. And set her free. He had, as they say,
shown her the door. The one she hadn’t been able to find herself. Why else

would she have thanked him?
I closed my eyes and saw Fred at the Shootin’ Gallery, resplendent in his
suit and magic top hat. I saw Lane holding out one of the.22s chained to the
chump board.
Annie: How many shots?
Fred: Ten a clip. As many as you want. Today’s your day.
My eyes flew open as several things came crashing together in my mind.
I sat up, listening to the wind and the agitated surf. Then I turned on the
overhead light and got Erin’s folder out of my desk drawer. I laid the
photographs on the floor again, my heart pounding. The pix were good but
the light wasn’t. I dressed for the second time, shoved everything back into
the folder, and made another trip downstairs.
A lamp hung above the Scrabble table in the middle of the parlor, and I
knew from the many evenings I’d gotten my ass kicked that the light it cast
was plenty bright. There were sliding doors between the parlor and the hall
leading to Mrs. S.’s quarters. I pulled them shut so the light wouldn’t
disturb her. Then I turned on the lamp, moved the Scrabble box to the top of
the TV, and laid my photos out. I was too agitated to sit down. I bent over
the table instead, arranging and rearranging the photographs. I was about to
do that for the third time when my hand froze. I saw it. I saw him. Not proof
that would stand up in court, no, but enough for me. My knees came
unhinged, and I sat down after all.
The phone I’d used so many times to call my father—always noting
down the time and duration on the guest-call honor sheet when I was done
—suddenly rang. Only in that windy early morning silence, it sounded more
like a scream. I lunged at it and picked up the receiver before it could ring
again.
“H-H-Hel—” It was all I could manage. My heart was pounding too hard
for more.
“It’s you,” the voice on the other end said. He sounded both amused and
pleasantly surprised. “I was expecting your landlady. I had a story about a
family emergency all ready.”
I tried to speak. Couldn’t.
“Devin?” Teasing. Cheerful. “Are you there?”
“I…just a second.”

I held the phone to my chest, wondering (it’s crazy how your mind can
work when it’s put under sudden stress) if he could hear my heart at his end
of the line. On mine, I listened for Mrs. Shoplaw. I heard her, too: the muted
sound of her continuing snores. It was a good thing I’d closed the parlor
doors, and a better thing that there was no extension in her bedroom. I put
the phone back to my ear and said, “What do you want? Why are you
calling?”
“I think you know, Devin…and even if you didn’t, it’s too late now, isn’t
it?”
“Are you psychic, too?” It was stupid, but right then my brain and my
mouth seemed to be running on separate tracks.
“That’s Rozzie,” he said. “Our Madame Fortuna.” He actually laughed.
He sounded relaxed, but I doubt if he was. Killers don’t make telephone
calls in the middle of the night if they’re relaxed. Especially if they can’t be
sure of who’s going to answer the phone.
But he had a story, I thought. This guy’s a Boy Scout, he’s crazy but
always prepared. The tattoo, for instance. That’s what takes your eye when
you look at those photos. Not the face. Not the baseball cap.
“I knew what you were up to,” he said. “I knew even before the girl
brought you that folder. The one with the pictures in it. Then today…with
the pretty mommy and the crippled kid… have you told them, Devin? Did
they help you work it out?”
“They don’t know anything.”
The wind gusted. I could hear it at his end, too…as if he were outside. “I
wonder if I can believe you.”
“You can. You absolutely can.” Looking down at the pictures. Tattoo
Man with his hand on Linda Gray’s ass. Tattoo Man helping her aim her
rifle at the Shootin’ Gallery.
Lane: Let’s see your best Annie Oakley, Annie.
Fred: A crack shot!
Tattoo Man in his fishtop cap and dark glasses and sandy blond goatee.
You could see the bird tattoo on his hand because the rawhide gloves had
stayed in his back pocket until he and Linda Gray were in Horror House.
Until he had her in the dark.
“I wonder,” he said again. “You were in that big old house for a long time
this afternoon, Devin. Were you talking about the pictures the Cook girl

brought, or were you just fucking her? Maybe it was both. Mommy’s a tasty
piece, all right.”
“They don’t know anything,” I repeated. I was speaking low and fixing
my gaze on the closed parlor doors. I kept expecting them to open and to
see Mrs. S. standing there in her nightgown, her face ghostly with cream.
“Neither do I. Not that I could prove.”
“Probably not, but it would only be a matter of time. You can’t unring the
bell. Do you know that old saying?”
“Sure, sure.” I didn’t, but at that moment I would have agreed with him if
he’d declared that Bobby Rydell (a yearly performer at Joyland) was
president.
“Here’s what you’re going to do. You’re going to come to Joyland, and
we’ll talk this out, face to face. Man to man.”
“Why would I do that? That would be pretty crazy, if you’re who I—”
“Oh, you know I am.” He sounded impatient. “And I know that if you
went to the police, they’d find out I came onboard at Joyland only a month
or so after Linda Gray was killed. Then they’d put me with the Wellman
show and Southern Star Amusements, and there goes the ballgame.”
“So why don’t I call them right now?”
“Do you know where I am?” Anger was creeping into his voice. No—
venom. “Do you know where I am right now, you nosy little sonofabitch?”
“Joyland, probably. In admin.”
“Not at all. I’m at the shopping center on Beach Row. The one where the
rich bitches go to buy their macrobiotics. Rich bitches like your girlfriend.”
A cold finger began to trace its course—its very slow course—down the
length of my spine from the nape of my neck to the crack of my ass. I said
nothing.
“There’s a pay phone outside the drugstore. Not a booth, but that’s okay
because it isn’t raining yet. Just windy. That’s where I am. I can see your
girlfriend’s house from where I’m standing. There’s a light on in the kitchen
—probably the one she leaves on all night—but the rest of the house is
dark. I could hang up this phone and be there in sixty seconds.”
“There’s a burglar alarm!” I didn’t know if there was or not.
He laughed. “At this point, do you think I give a shit? It won’t stop me
from cutting her throat. But first I’ll make her watch me do it to the little
cripple.”

You won’t rape her, though, I thought. You wouldn’t even if there was
time. I don’t think you can.
I came close to saying it, but didn’t. As scared as I was, I knew that
goading him right now would be a very bad idea.
“You were so nice to them today,” I said stupidly. “Flowers…prizes…the
rides…”
“Yeah, all the rube shit. Tell me about the car that came popping out of
the funhouse shy. What was that about?”
“I don’t know.”
“I think you do. Maybe we’ll discuss it. At Joyland. I know your Ford,
Jonesy. It’s got the flickery left headlight and the cute little pinwheel on the
antenna. If you don’t want me in that house cutting throats, you’re going to
get in it right now, and you’re going to drive down Beach Row to Joyland.”
“I—”
“Shut up when I’m talking to you. When you pass the shopping center,
you’ll see me standing by one of the park trucks. I’ll give you four minutes
to get here from the time I hang up the phone. If I don’t see you, I’ll kill the
woman and the kid. Understand?”
“I…”
“Do you understand?”
“Yes!”
“I’ll follow you to the park. Don’t worry about the gate; it’s already
open.”
“So you’ll either kill me or them. I get to choose. Is that it?”
“Kill you?” He sounded honestly surprised. “I’m not going to kill you,
Devin. That would only make my position worse. No, I’m going to do a
fade. It won’t be the first time, and it probably won’t be the last. What I
want is to talk. I want to know how you got onto me.”
“I could tell you that over the phone.”
He laughed. “And spoil your chance to overpower me and be Howie the
Hero again? First the little girl, then Eddie Parks, and the pretty mommy
and her crippled-up brat for the exciting climax. How could you pass that
up?” He stopped laughing. “Four minutes.”
“I—”
He hung up. I stared down at the glossy photos. I opened the drawer in
the Scrabble table, took out one of the pads, and fumbled for the mechanical

pencil Tina Ackerley always insisted on using to keep score. I wrote: Mrs.
S. If you’re reading this, something has happened to me. I know who killed
Linda Gray. Others, too.
I wrote his name in capital letters.
Then I ran for the door.
***
My Ford’s starter spun and sputtered and did not catch. Then it began to
slow. All summer I’d been telling myself I had to get a new battery, and all
summer I’d found other things to spend my money on.
My father’s voice: You’re flooding it, Devin.
I took my foot off the gas and sat there in the dark. Time seemed to be
racing, racing. Part of me wanted to run back inside and call the police. I
couldn’t call Annie because I didn’t have her fucking phone number, and
given her famous father, it would be unlisted. Did he know that? Probably
not, but he had the luck of the devil. As brazen as he was, the murdering
son of a bitch should have been caught three or four times already, but
hadn’t been. Because he had the luck of the devil.
She’ll hear him breaking in and she’ll shoot him.
Only the guns were in the safe, she’d said so. Even if she got one, she’d
probably find the bastard holding his straight-razor to Mike’s throat when
she confronted him.
I turned the key again, and with my foot off the accelerator and the carb
full of gas, my Ford started up at once. I backed down the driveway and
turned toward Joyland. The circular red neon of the Spin and the blue neon
swoops of the Thunderball stood out against low, fast-running clouds.
Those two rides were always lit on stormy nights, partly as a beacon for
ships at sea, partly to warn away any low-flying small aircraft bound for the
Parish County Airport.
Beach Row was deserted. Sheets of sand blew across it with every gust
of wind, some of those gusts strong enough to shake my car. Dunelets were
already starting to build up on the macadam. In my headlights, they looked
like skeleton fingers.
When I passed the shopping center, I saw a single figure standing in the
middle of the parking lot next to one of the Joyland maintenance trucks. He

raised a hand to me as I went past and gave a single solemn wave.
The big Victorian on the beach side came next. There was a light on in
the kitchen. I thought it was the fluorescent over the sink. I remembered
Annie coming into the room with her sweater in her hand. Her tanned
stomach. The bra almost the same color as her jeans. Would you like to go
upstairs with me, Devin?
Lights bloomed in my rearview mirror and pulled up close. He was using
his brights and I couldn’t see the vehicle behind them, but I didn’t have to. I
knew it was the maintenance truck, just as I knew he had been lying when
he said he wasn’t going to kill me. The note I’d left for Mrs. Shoplaw
would still be there in the morning. She would read it, and the name I had
written there. The question was how long it would take her to believe it. He
was such a charmer, him with his rhyming patter, winning smile, and
cocked derby lid. Why, all the women loved Lane Hardy.
***
The gates were open, as promised. I drove through them and tried to park in
front of the now-shuttered Shootin’ Gallery. He gave his horn a brief blip
and flashed his lights: Drive on. When I got to the Spin, he flashed his
lights again. I turned off my Ford, very aware that I might never start it
again. The hoister’s red neon cast a blood-colored light over the dashboard,
the seats, my own skin.
The truck’s headlights went out. I heard the door open and shut. And I
heard the wind blowing through the Spin’s struts—tonight that sound was a
harpy’s screech. There was a steady, almost syncopated rattling sound, as
well. The wheel was shaking on its tree-thick axle.
The Gray girl’s killer—and DeeDee Mowbray’s, and Claudine Sharp’s,
and Darlene Stamnacher’s—walked to my car and tapped on the window
with the barrel of a pistol. With his other hand he made a beckoning
gesture. I opened the door and got out.
“You said you weren’t going to kill me.” It sounded as weak as my legs
felt.
Lane smiled his charming smile. “Well…we’ll see which way the flow’s
gonna go. Won’t we?”

Tonight his derby was cocked to the left and pulled down tight so it
wouldn’t fly off. His hair, let loose from its workday ponytail, blew around
his neck. The wind gusted and the Spin gave an unhappy screech. The red
glow of the neon flickered across his face as it shook.
“Don’t worry about the hoister,” he said. “If it was solid it might blow
over, but the wind shoots right through the struts. You’ve got other things to
worry about. Tell me about the funhouse car. That’s what I really want to
know. How’d you do that? Was it some kind of remote gadget? I’m very
interested in those things. They’re the wave of the future, that’s what I
think.”
“There was no gadget.”
He didn’t seem to hear me. “Also what was the point? Was it supposed to
flush me out? If it was, you didn’t need to bother. I was already flushed.”
“She did it,” I said. I didn’t know if that was strictly true, but I had no
intention of bringing Mike into this conversation. “Linda Gray. Didn’t you
see her?”
The smile died. “Is that the best you can manage? The old ghost-in-thefunhouse story? You’ll have to do a little better than that.”
So he hadn’t seen her any more than I had. But I think he knew there was
something. I’ll never know for sure, but I think that was why he offered to
go after Milo. He hadn’t wanted us anywhere near Horror House.
“Oh, she was there. I saw her headband. Remember me looking in? It
was under the seat.”
He lashed out so suddenly I didn’t even have a chance to get my hand up.
The barrel of the gun slammed across my forehead, opening a gash. I saw
stars. Then blood poured into my eyes and I saw only that. I staggered back
against the rail beside the ramp leading to the Spin and gripped it to keep
from falling down. I swiped at my face with the sleeve of my slicker.
“I don’t know why you’d bother trying to spook me with a campfire story
at this late date,” he said, “and I don’t appreciate it. You know about the
headband because there was a picture of it in the folder your nosy collegecunt girlfriend brought you.” He smiled. There was nothing charming about
this one; it was all teeth. “Don’t kid a kidder, kiddo.”
“But…you didn’t see the folder.” The answer to that one was a simple
deduction even with my head ringing. “Fred saw it. And told you. Didn’t
he?”

“Yep. On Monday. We were having lunch together in his office. He said
that you and the college cunt were playing Hardy Boys, although he didn’t
put it quite that way. He thought it was sort of cute. I didn’t, because I’d
seen you stripping off Eddie Parks’s gloves after he had his heart attack.
That’s when I knew you were playing Hardy Boys. That folder…Fred said
the cunt had pages of notes. I knew it was only a matter of time before she
put me with Wellman’s and Southern Star.”
I had an alarming picture of Lane Hardy riding the train to Annandale
with a straight razor in his pocket. “Erin doesn’t know anything.”
“Oh, relax. Do you think I’m going after her? Apply some strain and use
your brain. And take a little stroll while you do it. Up the ramp, champ. You
and I are going for a ride. Up there where the air is rare.”
I started to ask him if he was crazy, but that would have been sort of a
stupid question at this late date, wouldn’t it?
“What have you got to grin about, Jonesy?”
“Nothing,” I said. “You don’t really want to go up with the wind blowing
like this, do you?” But the Spin’s engine was running. I hadn’t been aware
of it over the wind, the surf, and the eerie scream of the ride itself, but now
that I was listening, I heard it: a steady rumble. Almost a purr. Something
fairly obvious came to me: he was probably planning to turn the gun on
himself after he finished with me. Maybe you think that should have
occurred to me sooner, because crazy people have a way of doing that—you
read about it in the paper all the time. Maybe you’d be right. But I was
under a lot of stress.
“Old Carolina’s safe as houses,” he said. “I’d go up in her if the wind was
blowing sixty instead of just thirty. It blew at least that hard when Carla
skimmed past the coast two years ago, and she was just fine.”
“How are you going to put it in gear if we’re both in the car?”
“Get in and see. Or…” He lifted the gun. “Or I can shoot you right here.
I’m good with it either way.”
I walked up the ramp, opened the door of the car currently sitting at the
loading station, and started to climb in.
“No, no, no,” he said. “You want to be on the outside. Better view. Stand
aside, Clyde. And put your hands in your pockets.”
Lane sidled past me, the gun leveled. More blood was trickling into my
eyes and down my cheeks, but I didn’t dare take a hand from my slicker

pocket to wipe it off. I could see how white his finger was on the trigger of
the pistol. He sat down on the inside of the car.
“Now you.”
I got in. I didn’t see any choice.
“And close the door, that’s what it’s there for.”
“You sound like Dr. Seuss,” I said.
He grinned. “Flattery will get you nowhere. Close the door or I’ll put a
bullet in your knee. You think anyone will hear it over this wind? I don’t.”
I closed the door. When I looked at him again, he had the pistol in one
hand and a square metal gadget in the other. It had a stubby antenna. “Told
you, I love these gadgets. This one’s your basic garage door-opener with a
couple of small modifications. Sends a radio signal. Showed it to Mr.
Easterbrook this spring, told him it was the perfect thing for wheel
maintenance when there wasn’t a greenie or a gazoonie around to run the
groundside controls. He said I couldn’t use it because it hasn’t been safetyapproved by the state commission. Cautious old sonofabitch. I was going to
patent it. Too late now, I guess. Take it.”
I took it. It was a garage door opener. A Genie. My dad had one almost
exactly like it.
“See the button with the up arrow?”
“Yes.”
“Push it.”
I put my thumb on the button, but didn’t push it. The wind was strong
down here; how much stronger up there, where the air was rare? We’re
flying! Mike had shouted.
“Push it or take one in the knee, Jonesy.”
I pushed the button. The Spin’s motor geared down at once, and our car
began to rise.
“Now throw it over the side.”
“What?”
“Throw it over the side or you get one in the knee and you’ll never twostep again. I’ll give you a three-count. One…t—”
I threw his controller over the side. The wheel rose and rose into the
windy night. To my right I could see the waves pounding in, their crests
marked by foam so white it looked phosphorescent. On the left, the land
was dark and sleeping. Not a single set of headlights moved on Beach Row.

The wind gusted. My blood-sticky hair flew back from my forehead in
clumps. The car rocked. Lane threw himself forward, then back, making the
car rock more…but the gun, now pointed at my side, never wavered. Red
neon skimmed lines along the barrel.
He shouted, “Not so much like a grandma ride tonight, is it, Jonesy?”
It sure wasn’t. Tonight the staid old Carolina Spin was terrifying. As we
reached the top, a savage gust shook the wheel so hard I heard our car
rattling on the steel supports that held it. Lane’s derby flew off into the
night.
“Shit! Well, there’s always another one.”
Lane, how are we going to get off? The question rose behind my lips, but
I didn’t ask. I was too afraid he’d tell me we weren’t, that if the storm didn’t
blow the Spin over and if the power didn’t go out, we’d still be going
around and around when Fred got here in the morning. Two dead men on
Joyland’s chump-hoister. Which made my next move rather obvious.
Lane was smiling. “You want to try for the gun, don’t you? I can see it in
your eyes. Well, it’s like Dirty Harry said in that movie—you have to ask
yourself if you feel lucky.”
We were going down now, the car still rocking but not quite so much. I
decided I didn’t feel lucky at all.
“How many have you killed, Lane?”
“None of your fucking business. And since I have the gun, I think I
should get to ask the questions. How long have you known? Quite a while,
right? At least since the college cunt showed you the pictures. You just held
off so the cripple could get his day at the park. Your mistake, Jonesy. A
rube’s mistake.”
“I only figured it out tonight,” I said.
“Liar, liar, pants on fire.”
We swept past the ramp and started up again. I thought, He’s probably
going to shoot me when the car’s at the top. Then he’ll either shoot himself
or push me out, slide over, and jump onto the ramp when the car comes
back down. Take his chances on not breaking a leg or a collarbone. I was
betting on the murder-suicide scenario, but not until his curiosity was
satisfied.
I said, “Call me stupid if you want, but don’t call me a liar. I kept looking
at the pictures, and I kept seeing something in them, something familiar, but

until tonight I couldn’t quite figure out what it was. It was the hat. You were
wearing a fishtop baseball cap in the photos, not a derby, but it was tilted
one way when you and the Gray girl were at the Whirly Cups, and the other
when you were at the Shootin’ Gallery. I looked at the rest, the ones where
the two of you are only in the background, and saw the same thing. Back
and forth, back and forth. You do it all the time. You don’t even think about
it.”
“That’s all? A fucking tilted cap?”
“No.”
We were reaching the top for the second time, but I thought I was good
for at least one more turn. He wanted to hear this. Then the rain started, a
hard squall that turned on like a shower spigot. At least it’ll wash the blood
off my face, I thought. When I looked at him, I saw that wasn’t all it was
washing off.
“One day I saw you with your hat off and I thought your hair was
showing the first strands of white.” I was almost yelling to be heard over
the wind and the rush of the rain. It was coming sideways, hitting us in the
face. “Yesterday I saw you wiping the back of your neck. I thought it was
dirt. Then tonight, after I got the thing about the cap, I started thinking
about the fake bird tattoo. Erin saw how the sweat made it run. I guess the
cops missed that.”
I could see my car and the maintenance truck, growing larger as the Spin
neared the bottom of its circle for the second time. Beyond them, something
large—a wind-loosened swatch of canvas, maybe—was blowing up Joyland
Avenue.
“It wasn’t dirt you were wiping off, it was dye. It was running, just like
the tattoo ran. Like it’s running now. It’s all over your neck. It wasn’t
strands of white hair I saw, it was strands of blond.”
He wiped his neck and looked at the black smear on his palm. I almost
went for him then, but he raised the gun and all at once I was looking into a
black eye. It was small but terrible.
“I used to be blond,” he said, “but under the black I’m mostly gray now.
I’ve lived a stressful life, Jonesy.” He smiled ruefully, as though this were
some sad joke we were both in on.
We were going up again, and I had just a moment to think that the thing
I’d seen blowing up the midway—what I’d taken for a big square of loose

canvas—could have been a car with its headlights out. It was crazy to hope,
but I hoped, anyway.
The rain slashed at us. My slicker rippled. Lane’s hair flew like a ragged
flag. I hoped I could keep him from pulling the trigger for at least one more
spin. Maybe two? Possible but not probable.
“Once I let myself think of you as Linda Gray’s killer—and it wasn’t
easy, Lane, not after the way you took me in and showed me the ropes—I
could see past the hat and sunglasses and face-hair. I could see you. You
weren’t working here—”
“I was running a forklift in a warehouse in Florence.” He wrinkled his
nose. “Rube work. I hated it.”
“You were working in Florence, you met Linda Gray in Florence, but you
knew all about Joyland over here in NC, didn’t you? I don’t know if you’re
carny-from-carny, but you’ve never been able to stay away from the shows.
And when you suggested a little road trip, she went along with it.”
“I was her secret boyfriend. I told her I had to be. Because I was older.”
He smiled. “She bought it. They all do. You’d be surprised how much the
young ones will buy.”
You sick fuck, I thought. You sick, sick fuck.
“You brought her to Heaven’s Bay, you stayed at a motel, and then you
killed her here at Joyland even though you must have known about the
Hollywood Girls running around with their cameras. Bold as brass. That
was part of the kick, wasn’t it? Sure it was. You did it on a ride full of
conies—”
“Rubes,” he said. The hardest gust yet shook the Spin, but he seemed not
to feel it. Of course, he was on the inside of the wheel where things were a
little calmer. “Call em what they are. They’re just rubes, all of them. They
see nothing. It’s like their eyes are connected to their assholes instead of
their brains. Everything goes right through.”
“You get off on the risk, don’t you? That’s why you came back and hired
on.”
“Not even a month later.” His smile widened. “All this time I’ve been
right under their noses. And you know what? I’ve been…you know, good…
ever since that night in the funhouse. All the bad stuff was behind me. I
could have gone on being good. I like it here. I was building a life. I had my
gadget, and I was going to patent it.”

“Oh, I think sooner or later you would have done it again.” We were back
at the top. The wind and rain pelted us. I was shivering. My clothes were
soaked; Lane’s cheeks were dark with hair-dye. It ran down his skin in
tendrils. His mind is like that, I thought. On the inside, where he never
smiles.
“No. I was cured. I have to do you, Jonesy, but only because you stuck
your nose in where it doesn’t belong. It’s too bad, because I liked you. I
really did.”
I thought he was telling the truth, which made what was happening even
more horrible.
We were going back down. The world below was windy and rain-soaked.
There had been no car with its headlights out, only a blowing piece of
canvas that for a moment looked like that to my yearning mind. The cavalry
wasn’t coming. Thinking it was would only get me killed. I had to do this
myself, and the only chance I had was to make him mad. Really mad.
“You get off on risk, but you don’t get off on rape, do you? If you did,
you would have taken them to some isolated place. I think what your secret
girlfriends have between their legs scares you limp. What do you do later?
Lie in bed and jack off thinking about how brave you are, killing
defenseless girls?”
“Shut up.”
“You can fascinate them, but you can’t fuck them.” The wind shouted;
the car rocked. I was going to die and at that moment I didn’t give shit one.
I didn’t know how angry I was making him, but I was angry enough for
both of us. “What happened to make you this way? Did your mother put a
clothespin on your peepee when you went weewee in the corner? Did Uncle
Stan make you give him a blowjob? Or was it—”
“Shut up!” He rose into a crouch, gripping the safety bar in one hand and
pointing the gun at me with the other. A stroke of lightning lit him up:
staring eyes, lank hair, working mouth. And the gun. “Shut your dirty mou
—”
“DEVIN, DUCK!”
I didn’t think about it, I just did it. There was a whip-crack report, an
almost liquid sound in the blowing night. The bullet must have gone right
past me, but I didn’t hear it or feel it, the way characters do in books. The
car we were in swept past the loading point and I saw Annie Ross standing

on the ramp with a rifle in her hands. The van was behind her. Her hair was
blowing around her bone-white face.
We started up again. I looked at Lane. He was frozen in his crouch, his
mouth ajar. Black dye ran down his cheeks. His eyes were rolled up so only
the bottom half of the irises showed. Most of his nose was gone. One nostril
hung down by his upper lip, but the rest of it was just a red ruin surrounding
a black hole the size of a dime.
He sat down on the seat, hard. Several of his front teeth rattled out of his
mouth when he did. I plucked the gun from his hand and tossed it over the
side. What I was feeling right then was…nothing. Except in some very deep
part of me, where I had begun to realize this might not be my night to die,
after all.
“Oh,” he said. Then he said “Ah.” Then he slumped forward, chin on
chest. He looked like a man considering his options, and very carefully.
There was more lightning as the car reached the top. It illuminated my
seatmate in a stutter of blue fire. The wind blew and the Spin moaned in
protest. We were coming down again.
From below, almost lost in the storm: “Dev, how do I stop it?”
I first thought of telling her to look for the remote control gadget, but in
the storm she could hunt for half an hour and still not find it. Even if she
did, it might be broken or lying shorted out in a puddle. Besides, there was
a better way.
“Go to the motor!” I shouted. “Look for the red button! RED BUTTON,
ANNIE! It’s the emergency stop!”
I swept past her, registering the same jeans and sweater she’d worn
earlier, both now soaked and plastered to her. No jacket, no hat. She had
come in a hurry, and I knew who had sent her. How much simpler it would
have been if Mike had focused on Lane at the start. But Rozzie never had,
even though she’d known him for years, and I was to find out later that
Mike never focused on Lane Hardy at all.
I was going back up again. Beside me, Lane’s soaking hair was dripping
black rain into his lap. “Wait until I come back down!”
“What?”
I didn’t bother trying again; the wind would have drowned it out. I could
only hope she wouldn’t hammer on the red button while I was at the top of
the ride. As the car rose into the worst of the storm the lightning flashed

again, and this time there was an accompanying crack of thunder. As if it
had roused him—perhaps it had—Lane lifted his head and looked at me.
Tried to look at me; his eyes had come back level in their sockets, but were
now pointing in opposite directions. That terrible image has never left my
mind, and still comes to me at the oddest times: going through turnpike
tollbooths, drinking a cup of coffee in the morning with the CNN anchors
baying bad news, getting up to piss at three AM, which some poet or other
has rightly dubbed the Hour of the Wolf.
He opened his mouth and blood poured out. He made a grinding insectile
sound, like a cicada burrowing into a tree. A spasm shook him. His feet tapdanced briefly on the steel floor of the car. They stilled, and his head
dropped forward again.
Be dead, I thought. Please be dead this time.
As the Spin started down again, a bolt of lightning struck the
Thunderball; I saw the tracks light up briefly. I thought, That could have
been me. The hardest gust of wind yet struck the car. I held on for dear life.
Lane flopped like a big doll.
I looked down at Annie—her white face staring up, her eyes squinted
against the rain. She was inside the rail, standing next to the motor. So far,
so good. I put my hands around my mouth. “The red button!”
“I see it!”
“Wait until I tell you!”
The ground was coming up. I grabbed the bar. When the late (at least I
hoped he was) Lane Hardy was at the control stick, the Spin always came to
an easy halt, the cars up top swaying gently. I had no idea what an
emergency stop would be like, but I was going to find out.
“Now, Annie! Push it now!”
It was a good thing I was holding on. My car stopped dead about ten feet
from the unloading point and still five feet above the ground. The car tilted.
Lane was thrown forward, his head and torso flopping over the bar. Without
thinking, I grabbed his shirt and pulled him back. One of his hands flopped
into my lap and I flung it away with a grunt of disgust.
The bar wouldn’t unlock, so I had to wriggle out from beneath it.
“Be careful, Dev!” Annie was standing beside the car, holding up her
hands, as if to catch me. She had propped the rifle she’d used to end

Hardy’s life against the motor housing.
“Step back,” I said, and threw one leg over the side of the car. More
lightning flashed. The wind howled and the Spin howled back. I got hold of
a strut and swung out. My hands slipped on the wet metal and I dropped. I
went to my knees. A moment later she was pulling me to my feet.
“Are you all right?”
“Yes.”
I wasn’t, though. The world was swimming, and I was on the edge of a
faint. I lowered my head, gripped my legs just above the knees, and began
taking deep breaths. For a moment it could have gone either way, but then
things began to solidify. I stood up again, careful not to move too fast.
It was hard to tell with the rain bucketing down, but I was pretty sure she
was crying. “I had to do it. He was going to kill you. Wasn’t he? Please,
Dev, say he was going to kill you. Mike said he was, and—”
“You can quit worrying about that, believe me. And I wouldn’t have been
his first. He’s killed four women.” I thought of Erin’s speculation about the
years when there had been no bodies—none discovered, at least. “Maybe
more. Probably more. We have to call the police. There’s a phone in—”
I started to point toward Mysterio’s Mirror Mansion, but she grabbed my
arm. “No. You can’t. Not yet.”
“Annie—”
She thrust her face close to mine, almost kissing distance, but kissing was
the last thing on her mind. “How did I get here? Am I supposed to tell the
police that a ghost showed up in my son’s room in the middle of the night
and told him you’d die on the Ferris wheel if I didn’t come? Mike can’t be a
part of this, and if you tell me I’m being an overprotective mom, I’ll…I’ll
kill you myself.”
“No,” I said. “I won’t tell you that.”
“So how did I get here?”
At first I didn’t know. You have to remember that I was still scared
myself. Only scared doesn’t cover it. Scared isn’t even in the ballpark. I was
in shock. Instead of Mysterio’s, I led her to her van and helped her sit
behind the wheel. Then I went around and got in on the passenger side. By
then I had an idea. It had the virtue of simplicity, and I thought it would fly.
I shut the door and took my wallet out of my hip pocket. I almost dropped it

on the floor when I opened it; I was shaking like crazy. Inside there were
plenty of things to write on, but I had nothing to write with.
“Please tell me you have a pen or a pencil, Annie.”
“Maybe in the glove compartment. You’ll have to call the police, Dev. I
have to get back to Mike. If they arrest me for leaving the scene or
something…or for murder…”
“Nobody’s going to arrest you, Annie. You saved my life.” I was pawing
through the glove compartment as I talked. There was an owner’s manual,
piles of gasoline credit card receipts, Rolaids, a bag of M&Ms, even a
Jehovah’s Witnesses pamphlet asking if I knew where I was going to spend
the afterlife, but no pen or pencil.
“You can’t wait…in a situation like that…that’s what I was always
told…” Her words came in chunks because her teeth were chattering. “Just
aim…and squeeze before you can…you know…second-guess yourself…it
was supposed to go between his eyes, but…the wind…I guess the wind…”
She shot out a hand and gripped my shoulder hard enough to hurt. Her
eyes were huge.
“Did I hit you, too, Dev? There’s a gash in your forehead and blood on
your shirt!”
“You didn’t hit me. He pistol-whipped me a little, that’s all. Annie,
there’s nothing in here to write w—”
But there was: a ballpoint at the very back of the glove compartment.
Printed on the barrel, faded but still legible, was LET’S GO KROGERING! I
won’t say that pen saved Annie and Mike Ross serious police trouble, but I
know it saved them a lot of questions about what had brought Annie to
Joyland on such a dark and stormy night.
I passed her the pen and a business card from my wallet, blank side up.
Earlier, sitting in my car and terribly afraid that my failure to buy a new
battery was going to get Annie and Mike killed, I’d thought I could go back
into the house and call her…only I didn’t have her number. Now I told her
to write it down. “And below the number, write Call if plans change.”
While she did, I started the van’s engine and turned the heater on full
blast. She returned the card. I tucked it into my wallet, shoved the wallet
back into my pocket, and tossed the pen into the glove compartment. I took

her in my arms and kissed her cold cheek. Her trembling didn’t stop, but it
eased.
“You saved my life,” I said. “Now let’s make sure nothing happens to
you or Mike because you did. Listen very carefully.”
She listened.
***
Six days later, Indian summer came back to Heaven’s Bay for a brief final
fling. It was perfect weather for a noon meal at the end of the Ross
boardwalk, only we couldn’t go there. Newsmen and photographers had it
staked out. They could do that because, unlike the two acres surrounding
the big green Victorian, the beach was public property. The story of how
Annie had taken out Lane Hardy (known then and forever after as The
Carny Killer) with one shot had gone nationwide.
Not that the stories were bad. Quite the opposite. The Wilmington paper
had led with DAUGHTER OF EVANGELIST BUDDY ROSS BAGS CARNY KILLER. The
New York Post was more succinct: HERO MOM! It helped that there were file
photos from Annie’s salad days where she looked not just gorgeous but
smoking hot. Inside View, the most popular of the supermarket tabloids
back then, put out an extra edition. They had unearthed a photo of Annie at
seventeen, taken after a shooting competition at Camp Perry. Clad in tight
jeans, an NRA tee-shirt, and cowboy boots, she was standing with an
antique Purdey shotgun broken over one arm and holding up a blue ribbon
in her free hand. Next to the smiling girl was a mug-shot of Lane Hardy at
twenty-one, after an arrest in San Diego—under his real name, which was
Leonard Hopgood—for indecent exposure. The two pix made a terrific
contrast. The headline: BEAUTY AND THE BEAST.
Being a minor hero myself, I got some mention in the North Carolina
papers, but in the tabloids I was hardly mentioned. Not sexy enough, I
guess.
Mike thought having a HERO MOM was cool. Annie loathed the whole
circus and couldn’t wait for the press to move on to the next big thing.
She’d gotten all the newspaper coverage she wanted in the days when she
had been the holy man’s wild child, famous for dancing on the bars in
various Greenwich Village dives. So she gave no interviews, and we had

our farewell picnic in the kitchen. There were actually five of us, because
Milo was under the table, hoping for scraps, and Jesus—on the face of
Mike’s kite—was propped in the extra chair.
Their bags were in the hall. When the meal was done, I would drive them
to Wilmington International. A private jet, laid on by Buddy Ross
Ministries, Inc., would fly them back to Chicago and out of my life. The
Heaven’s Bay police department (not to mention the North Carolina State
Police and maybe even the FBI) would undoubtedly have more questions
for her, and she’d probably be back at some point to testify before a grand
jury, but she’d be fine. She was the HERO MOM, and thanks to that
promotional pen from Kroger’s in the back of the van’s glove compartment,
there would never be a photo of Mike in the Post below a headline reading
PSYCHIC SAVIOR!

Our story was simple, and Mike played no part in it. I had gotten
interested in the murder of Linda Gray because of the legend that her ghost
haunted the Joyland funhouse. I had enlisted the help of my researchminded friend and summer co-worker, Erin Cook. The photographs of
Linda Gray and her killer had reminded me of someone, but it wasn’t until
after Mike’s day at Joyland that the penny dropped. Before I could call the
police, Lane Hardy had called me, threatening to kill Annie and Mike if I
didn’t come to Joyland on the double. So much truth, and only one little lie:
I had Annie’s phone number so I could call her if plans for Mike’s visit to
the park changed. (I produced the card for the lead detective, who barely
glanced at it.) I said I called Annie from Mrs. Shoplaw’s before leaving for
Joyland, telling her to lock her doors, call the cops, and stay put. She did
lock the doors, but didn’t stay put. Nor did she call the police. She was
terrified that if Hardy saw blue flashing lights, he’d kill me. So she’d taken
one of the guns from the safe and followed Lane with her headlights off,
hoping to surprise him. Which she did. Thus, HERO MOM.
“How’s your father taking all this, Dev?” Annie asked.
“Aside from saying he’d come to Chicago and wash your cars for life, if
you wanted?” She laughed, but my father had actually said that. “He’s fine.
I’m heading back to New Hampshire next month. We’ll have Thanksgiving
together. Fred asked me to stay on until then, help him get the park buttoned
up, and I agreed. I can still use the money.”

“For school?”
“Yeah. I guess I’ll go back for the spring semester. Dad’s sending me an
application.”
“Good. That’s where you need to be, not painting rides and replacing
lightbulbs in an amusement park.”
“You’ll really come to see us in Chicago, right?” Mike asked. “Before I
get too sick?”
Annie stirred uneasily, but said nothing.
“I have to,” I said, and pointed to the kite. “How else am I going to return
that? You said it was just a loan.”
“Maybe you’ll get to meet my grandpa. Other than being crazy about
Jesus, he’s pretty cool.” He gave his mother a sideways glance. “I think so,
anyway. He’s got this great electric train set in his basement.”
I said, “Your grandfather may not want to see me, Mike. I almost got
your mother in a whole peck of trouble.”
“He’ll know you didn’t mean to. It wasn’t your fault that you worked
with that guy.” Mike’s face grew troubled. He put down his sandwich,
picked up a napkin, and coughed into it. “Mr. Hardy seemed really nice. He
took us on the rides.”
A lot of girls thought he was really nice, too, I thought. “You never had
a…a vibe about him?”
Mike shook his head and coughed some more. “No. I liked him. And I
thought he liked me.”
I thought of Lane on the Carolina Spin, calling Mike a crippled brat.
Annie put a hand on Mike’s wand of a neck and said, “Some people hide
their real faces, hon. Sometimes you can tell when they’re wearing masks,
but not always. Even people with powerful intuitions can get fooled.”
I had come for lunch, and to take them to the airport, and to say goodbye,
but I had another reason, as well. “I want to ask you something, Mike. It’s
about the ghost who woke you up and told you I was in trouble at the park.
Is that okay? Will it upset you?”
“No, but it’s not like on TV. There wasn’t any white see-through thing
floating around and going whooo-ooo. I just woke up…and the ghost was
there. Sitting on my bed like a real person.”
“I wish you wouldn’t talk about this,” Annie said. “Maybe it’s not
upsetting him, but it’s sure as hell upsetting me.”

“I just have one more question, and then I’ll let it go.”
“Fine.” She began to clear the table.
Tuesday we had taken Mike to Joyland. Not long after midnight on
Wednesday morning, Annie had shot Lane Hardy on the Carolina Spin,
ending his life and saving mine. The next day had been taken up by police
interviews and dodging reporters. Then, on Thursday afternoon, Fred Dean
had come to see me, and his visit had nothing to do with Lane Hardy’s
death.
Except I thought it did.
“Here’s what I want to know, Mike. Was it the girl from the funhouse?
Was she the one who came and sat on your bed?”
Mike’s eyes went wide. “Gosh, no! She’s gone. When they go, I don’t
think they ever come back. It was a guy.”
***
In 1991, shortly after his sixty-third birthday, my father suffered a fairly
serious heart attack. He spent a week in Portsmouth General Hospital and
was then sent home, with stern warnings about watching his diet, losing
twenty pounds, and cutting out the evening cigar. He was one of those rare
fellows who actually followed the doctor’s orders, and at this writing he’s
eighty-five and, except for a bad hip and dimming eyesight, still good to go.
In 1973, things were different. According to my new research assistant
(Google Chrome), the average stay back then was two weeks—the first in
ICU, the second on the Cardiac Recovery floor. Eddie Parks must have
done okay in ICU, because while Mike was touring Joyland on that
Tuesday, Eddie was being moved downstairs. That was when he had the
second heart attack. He died in the elevator.
***
“What did he say to you?” I asked Mike.
“That I had to wake up my mom and make her go to the park right away,
or a bad man was going to kill you.”
Had this warning come while I was still on the phone with Lane, in Mrs.
Shoplaw’s parlor? It couldn’t have come much later, or Annie wouldn’t

have made it in time. I asked, but Mike didn’t know. As soon as the ghost
went—that was the word Mike used; it didn’t disappear, didn’t walk out the
door or use the window, it just went—he had thumbed the intercom beside
his bed. When Annie answered his buzz, he’d started screaming.
“That’s enough,” Annie said, in a tone that brooked no refusal. She was
standing by the sink with her hands on her hips.
“I don’t mind, Mom.” Cough-cough. “Really.” Cough-cough-cough.
“She’s right,” I said. “It’s enough.”
Did Eddie appear to Mike because I saved the bad-tempered old geezer’s
life? It’s hard to know anything about the motivations of those who’ve
Gone On (Rozzie’s phrase, the caps always implied by lifted and upturned
palms), but I doubt it. His reprieve only lasted a week, after all, and he sure
didn’t spend those last few days in the Caribbean, being waited on by
topless honeys. But…
I had come to visit him, and except maybe for Fred Dean, I was the only
one who did. I even brought him a picture of his ex-wife. Sure, he’d called
her a miserable scolding backbiting cunt, and maybe she was, but at least
I’d made the effort. In the end, so had he. For whatever reason.
As we drove to the airport, Mike leaned forward from the back seat and
said, “You want to know something funny, Dev? He never once called you
by name. He just called you the kiddo. I guess he figured I’d know who he
meant.”
I guessed so, too.
Eddie fucking Parks.
***
Those are things that happened once upon a time and long ago, in a magical
year when oil sold for eleven dollars a barrel. The year I got my damn heart
broke. The year I lost my virginity. The year I saved a nice little girl from
choking and a fairly nasty old man from dying of a heart attack (the first
one, at least). The year a madman almost killed me on a Ferris wheel. The
year I wanted to see a ghost and didn’t…although I guess at least one of
them saw me. That was also the year I learned to talk a secret language, and
how to dance the Hokey Pokey in a dog costume. The year I discovered that
there are worse things than losing the girl.

The year I was twenty-one, and still a greenie.
The world has given me a good life since then, I won’t deny it, but
sometimes I hate the world, anyway. Dick Cheney, that apologist for
waterboarding and for too long chief preacher in the Holy Church of
Whatever It Takes, got a brand-new heart while I was writing this—how
about that? He lives on; other people have died. Talented ones like Clarence
Clemons. Smart ones like Steve Jobs. Decent ones like my old friend Tom
Kennedy. Mostly you get used to it. You pretty much have to. As W. H.
Auden pointed out, the Reaper takes the rolling in money, the screamingly
funny, and those who are very well hung. But that isn’t where Auden starts
his list. He starts with the innocent young.
Which brings us to Mike.
***
I took a seedy off-campus apartment when I went back to school for the
spring semester. One chilly night in late March, as I was cooking a stir-fry
for myself and this girl I was just about crazy for, the phone rang. I
answered it in my usual jokey way: “Wormwood Arms, Devin Jones,
proprietor.”
“Dev? It’s Annie Ross.”
“Annie! Wow! Hold on a second, just let me turn down the radio.”
Jennifer—the girl I was just about crazy for—gave me an inquiring look.
I shot her a wink and a smile and picked up the phone. “I’ll be there two
days after spring break starts, and you can tell him that’s a promise. I’m
going to buy my ticket next wee—”
“Dev. Stop. Stop.”
I picked up on the dull sorrow in her voice and all my happiness at
hearing from her collapsed into dread. I put my forehead against the wall
and closed my eyes. What I really wanted to close was the ear with the
phone pressed to it.
“Mike died last evening, Dev. He…” Her voice wavered, then steadied.
“He spiked a fever two days ago, and the doctor said we ought to get him
into the hospital. Just to be safe, he said. He seemed to be getting better
yesterday. Coughing less. Sitting up and watching TV. Talking about some
big basketball tournament. Then… last night…” She stopped. I could hear

the rasp of her breath as she tried to get herself under control. I was also
trying, but the tears had started. They were warm, almost hot.
“It was very sudden,” she said. Then, so softly I could barely hear: “My
heart is breaking.”
There was a hand on my shoulder. Jennifer’s. I covered it with my own. I
wondered who was in Chicago to put a hand on Annie’s shoulder.
“Is your father there?”
“On a crusade. In Phoenix. He’s coming tomorrow.”
“Your brothers?”
“George is here now. Phil’s supposed to arrive on the last flight from
Miami. George and I are at the…place. The place where they…I can’t
watch it happen. Even though it’s what he wanted.” She was crying hard
now. I had no idea what she was talking about.
“Annie, what can I do? Anything. Anything at all.”
She told me.
***
Let’s end on a sunny day in April of 1974. Let’s end on that short stretch of
North Carolina beach that lies between the town of Heaven’s Bay and
Joyland, an amusement park that would close its doors two years later; the
big parks finally drove it to bankruptcy in spite of all Fred Dean’s and
Brenda Rafferty’s efforts to save it. Let’s end with a pretty woman in faded
jeans and a young man in a University of New Hampshire sweatshirt. The
young man is holding something in one hand. Lying at the end of the
boardwalk with his snout on one paw is a Jack Russell terrier who seems to
have lost all his former bounce. On the picnic table, where the woman once
served fruit smoothies, there’s a ceramic urn. It looks sort of like a vase
missing its bouquet. We’re not quite ending where we began, but close
enough.
Close enough.
***
“I’m on the outs with my father again,” Annie said, “and this time there’s
no grandson to hold us together. When he got back from his damn crusade

and found out I’d had Mike cremated, he was furious.” She smiled wanly.
“If he hadn’t stayed for that last goddam revival, he might have talked me
out of it. Probably would have.”
“But it’s what Mike wanted.”
“Strange request for a kid, isn’t it? But yes, he was very clear. And we
both know why.”
Yes. We did. The last good time always comes, and when you see the
darkness creeping toward you, you hold on to what was bright and good.
You hold on for dear life.
“Did you even ask your dad…?”
“To come? Actually I did. It’s what Mike would have wanted. Daddy
refused to participate in what he called ‘a pagan ceremony.’ And I’m glad.”
She took my hand. “This is for us, Dev. Because we were here when he was
happy.”
I raised her hand to my lips, kissed it, gave it a brief squeeze, then let it
go. “He saved my life as much as you did, you know. If he hadn’t woken
you up…if he’d even hesitated—”
“I know.”
“Eddie couldn’t have done anything for me without Mike. I don’t see
ghosts, or hear them. Mike was the medium.”
“This is hard,” she said. “Just…so hard to let him go. Even the little bit
that’s left.”
“Are you sure you want to go through with it?”
“Yes. While I still can.”
She took the urn from the picnic table. Milo raised his head to look at it,
then lowered it back to his paw. I don’t know if he understood Mike’s
remains were inside, but he knew Mike was gone, all right; that he knew
damned well.
I held out the Jesus kite with the back to her. There, as per Mike’s
instructions, I had taped a small pocket, big enough to hold maybe half a
cup of fine gray ash. I held it open while Annie tipped the urn. When the
pocket was full, she planted the urn in the sand between her feet and held
out her hands. I gave her the reel of twine and turned toward Joyland, where
the Carolina Spin dominated the horizon.
I’m flying, he’d said that day, lifting his arms over his head. No braces to
hold him down then, and none now. I believe that Mike was a lot wiser than

his Christ-minded grandfather. Wiser than all of us, maybe. Was there ever
a crippled kid who didn’t want to fly, just once?
I looked at Annie. She nodded that she was ready. I lifted the kite and let
it go. It rose at once on a brisk, chilly breeze off the ocean. We followed its
ascent with our eyes.
“You,” she said, and held out her hands. “This part is for you, Dev. He
said so.”
I took the twine, feeling the pull as the kite, now alive, rose above us,
nodding back and forth against the blue. Annie picked up the urn and
carried it down the sandy slope. I guess she dumped it there at the edge of
the ocean, but I was watching the kite, and once I saw the thin gray
streamer of ash running away from it, carried into the sky on the breeze, I
let the string go free. I watched the untethered kite go up, and up, and up.
Mike would have wanted to see how high it would go before it disappeared,
and I did, too.
I wanted to see that, too.
August 24, 2012

